                                     SILMARILS: Information-Theoretic and
                                Quantum-Secure Designated-Verifier Signatures
                                                   1                  1            1                     2
                               Hassan Khodaiemehr , Khadijeh Bagheri , Chen Feng , and Dariia Porechna
                                 1 Faculty of Applied Science, School of Engineering, The University of British
                                          Columbia (UBC) Okanagan Campus, Kelowna, BC, Canada
                                           {hassan.khodaiemehr,khadijeh.bagheri,chen.feng}@ubc.ca
                                                             2 EternaX Labs
                                                            dariia.p@eternax.ai
                                    Abstract. SILMARILS follows the principle of Secure Information-
                                    theory-Leveraged Mechanism for Authentication and Receipt-Integrated
                                    Lightweight Signatures. It is built from a minimal algebraic core over
                                    Fp using true randomness and perfect 2-out-of-2 Shamir secret sharing.
                                    The framework supports both two-party and three-party modes. In the
                                    two-party setting, SILMARILS realizes a transferable designated-verifier
                                    (TDV) signature scheme. The designated verifier can simulate accepting
                                    transcripts indistinguishable from real ones, achieving Jakobsson–Sako–
                                    Impagliazzo DV security. The verifier may publish a receipt r enabling
                                    public verification, yet even with r, no external party can tell whether a
                                    transcript was signed or simulated. As DV signatures permit simulation,
                                    standard EUF-CMA cannot hold for the designated verifier; instead,
                                    we prove EUF-CMA¬DV security for all non-designated verifiers in both
                                    the random oracle model (ROM) and quantum random oracle model
                                    (QROM). In the three-party mode, adopting the broadcast model of
                                    Fitzi et al. [26,27,45], we obtain a statistically secure signature protocol
                                    with simulation-based security and error 1/p. We analyze security in the
                                    Pure IT model, the IT+ROM, and the QROM, extending the Fitzi et al.
                                    framework to quantum adversaries with classical I/O. Correctness, se-
                                    crecy, transferability, and unforgeability for non-designated parties remain
                                    equivalent to simulation-based security. Thanks to its simple algebraic
                                    structure, SILMARILS offers very compact keys and signatures for the
                                    blockchain settings we target, where standardized PQC schemes are al-
                                    ready more than sufÏcient. Our goal is not to compare SILMARILS with
                                    PQC, but to highlight its suitability for lightweight TDV authentication.
                                    Afair comparison with other DV schemes is omitted due to space and
        arXiv:2605.03230v2  [cs.CR]  18 May 2026the complexity of aligning models.
                              Keywords: IT security · Digital signatures · MPC · QROM · Quantum-safe
                              1    Introduction
                              Digital signatures ensure authenticity in distributed systems, with constructions
                              spanning classical schemes [1,9,32,33] and post-quantum alternatives [2,6–8,
                            2      Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                            14,19,28,37,39,40]. Information-theoretic (IT) signatures provide unconditional
                            security [3,12,29], but current schemes often lack full simulation-based guarantees
                            or remain inefÏcient.
                               The study of digital signatures is deeply intertwined with the theory of broad-
                            cast and Byzantine agreement [45]. The foundational works of Pease, Shostak,
                            andLamport[36,42] introduced the broadcast and Byzantine agreement problems
                            and established both feasibility and impossibility results under various adversarial
                            models. The attack-coupling argument of Fischer, Lynch, and Merritt [22] has
                            since become a standard tool for proving impossibility results in distributed
                            computing [13,24]. A comprehensive treatment of distributed algorithms can be
                            found in [38]. Digital signatures play a crucial role in enabling authenticated
                            broadcast. Dolev and Strong [18] showed that broadcast is possible for any
                            number of dishonest parties if signatures are available along arbitrary transfer
                            paths. Conversely, signatures can be constructed from broadcast via information-
                            checking protocols [15,16,45]. The minimal requirements for broadcast were
                            further studied in [24]. Randomized and variable-round protocols were introduced
                            to overcome deterministic lower bounds [5,43], with optimal expected-round
                            protocols developed in [21,34]. In asynchronous networks, impossibility results
                            such as [23] motivated randomized protocols for consensus [4].
                            1.1   Motivation and Contribution
                            Although IT digital signatures are known to be possible, existing constructions do
                            not provide efÏcient, reusable, and simulation-secure signatures in the multi-party,
                            multi-use setting. The central challenge is achieving unconditional security while
                            retaining efÏciency, scalability, and practical deployability. Our work is motivated
                            by the intersection of several research directions: IT security, secure multiparty
                            computation (MPC), long-term quantum resilience, and the authentication re-
                            quirements of modern distributed systems such as blockchains. In particular,
                            SILMARILS addresses two complementary settings: a two-party TDV mode
                                                        ¬DV
                            that yields efÏcient EUF-CMA    signatures in the ROM and QROM, and a
                            three-party broadcast-model construction that achieves full simulation-based
                            security in the sense of Fitzi et al. notion.
                               IT signatures are appealing in MPC settings, where using computational
                            signatures would break end-to-end IT security. In practice, these guarantees
                            are instantiated via hash functions, either as injective encodings in the Pure
                            IT model or as random oracles in the IT+ROM and QROM settings, which
                            requires analyzing the algebraic core in the ROM/QROM. Thus, unlike post-
                            quantum signatures that rely on hardness assumptions (e.g., LWE or hash-based
                            security), our two-party construction achieves computational security in the
                            ROM/QROM using IT tools, while the three-party construction achieves IT
                            security in the Pure IT model (replacing hashes with IT authentication codes).
                            In the three-party setting with at most one dishonest party, the classical lower
                            bound shows that any ε-secure digital signature from scratch which uses only
                            noiseless channels and no setup, must satisfy ε ≥ 1/3 [45, Corollary 18.7]. The
                            ε = 1/p construction of [45, Theorem 18.18] avoids this bound only by working
                                                                                                        Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                   3
                                                                        Table 1: Comparison of major digital signature families.
                                                    Family                          Assumption                                   Key Sizes     Signature Sizes Quantum Security
                                                    Classical (RSA, ECDSA)          Factoring, DL, ECDL                          Small–Medium Small             No
                                                    Hash-Based (SPHINCS+)           Hash functions                               Small         Large            Yes
                                                    Code-Based (CFS)                Decoding random codes                        Large         Medium           Yes
                                                    Lattice-Based (Dilithium, Falcon) M-SIS/M-LWE, SIS over NTRU Lattices        Medium        Small–Medium     Yes
                                                    Multivariate (UOV)              MQhardness                                   Large         Small            Yes
                                                    Isogeny-Based (SQISign)         Isogeny problems                             Small         Small            Yes (emerging)
                                                    IT-Based (SILMARILS)            Signer–Verifier shared randomness (TDV) Very Small         Very small       Yes
                                                   in a richer setup with authenticated channels, pre-shared keys, or correlated
                                                   randomness. This motivates our move to the TDV framework. Although TDV
                                                   signatures superficially resemble MACs due to shared randomness, they are
                                                   fundamentally different: MACs are symmetric, two-party, and non-transferable,
                                                   whereas TDV schemes are publicly readable and verifiable only by a designated
                                                   verifier who may choose to reveal validity evidences. In our two-party setting,
                                                   the shared randomness is ephemeral rather than a long-term secret key, and
                                                   is used solely to enable controlled transferability of signatures rather than to
                                                   authenticate messages. This distinction ensures that our model and impossibility
                                                   results remain fully consistent with the broader landscape of three-party signature
                                                   constructions. Hence, our goal is to develop an information-theoretic signature
                                                   framework that is efÏcient, reusable, and compatible with both classical and
                                                   quantum settings. SILMARILS achieves this by combining a minimal algebraic
                                                   core over F with perfect 2-out-of-2 Shamir secret sharing. The framework
                                                                       p
                                                   supports two complementary modes.
                                                         Two-party mode: We obtain a transferable designated-verifier (TDV) signa-
                                                   ture scheme with computational designated-verifier simulatability in the sense of
                                                                                                                           ¬DV
                                                   Jakobsson–Sako–Impagliazzo and EUF-CMA                                          security for all non-designated
                                                   verifiers in both the ROM and QROM. This mode provides lightweight authenti-
                                                   cation suitable for user–validator interactions and other two-party settings where
                                                   public verifiability is not required.
                                                         Three-party mode: Adopting the broadcast model of Fitzi et al., we con-
                                                   struct a statistically secure signature protocol achieving full simulation-based
                                                   security with error 1/p. Because practical instantiations rely on hash functions,
                                                   we analyze security in the Pure IT, IT+ROM, and QROM models and extend
                                                   the Fitzi simulation framework to a quantum setting with classical I/O.
                                                         These two modes together capture the full range of practical and theoretical
                                                   requirements: efÏcient two-party authentication, and a three-party information-
                                                   checking (IC) structure supporting correctness, unforgeability, transferability,
                                                   and secrecy. Table 1 summarizes the comparison of SILMARILS and other
                                                   signature families.
                                                   1.2       Applications to PQ Blockchain Architectures
                                                   The properties of SILMARILS align naturally with the needs of blockchain sys-
                                                   tems. Constant-time verification, compact receipts, and IT security allow PQ-safe
                                                   architectures without the heavy onchain footprint of standardized PQ signatures.
                                                   Wedeveloped a PQ-safe blockchain protocol where SILMARILS replaces both
                             4      Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                             validator signatures during consensus and user transaction message authentica-
                             tion, demonstrating that IT techniques can deliver practical, high-performance
                             authentication in both classical and post-quantum distributed systems. The key
                             achievements of our architecture include: 1) The TLS-derived per-pair secrets elim-
                             inate the need for large user-facing PQ signatures in high-frequency interactions,
                             while designated-verifier receipts preserve public auditability. 2) Validator-to-
                             validator authentication becomes cheaper, consensus protocols simplify, and
                             randomness generation can be implemented via lightweight commit–reveal mech-
                             anisms. The concrete ledger integration is outside the scope of this paper since
                             we intend a companion publication.
                                The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the necessary
                             preliminaries, including notation, ideal functionalities, and the security framework
                             used throughout the paper. Section 3 introduces the quantum-information tools
                             usedinouranalysis.Section4describesourdigitalsignatureschemeSILMARILS
                             in its two-party and three-party modes, detailing the key generation, signing,
                             and verification procedures. Section 5 and Section 6 provide a rigorous security
                             analysis of the two-party mode of SILMARILS under both the Jakobsson–Sako–
                             Impagliazzo designated-verifier framework and the EUF-CMA¬DV unforgeability
                             notion, while Section 7 analyzes the security of the three-party mode. Section 8
                             evaluates the efÏciency of our scheme. Finally, Section 9 concludes the paper.
                             2   Preliminaries
                             Let p be a prime and let F denote the finite field of order p. We write F∗ = F \{0}
                                                    p                                      p     p
                                                                                ∗                $   ∗
                             for its multiplicative group. Sampling uniformly from Fp is denoted by x ←− Fp.
                             For a random variable X over a finite set X, we write PX for its distribution.
                             For two distributions P and Q over X, the total variation distance is
                                        dvar(P,Q) = 1 X |P(x)−Q(x)| = max|P(A)−Q(A)|.              (1)
                                                    2 x∈X                A⊆X
                             Afunction µ : N → [0,1] is negligible if for every polynomial q(·) there exists
                             k ∈Nsuchthat µ(k)≤1/q(k) for all k ≥ k . We use boldface to denote vectors
                              0                                      0
                             and tuples when needed, and we use Viewi to denote the view of party Pi in a
                             protocol execution. We use the perfect 2-out-of-2 Shamir secret sharing scheme
                             SSS   over F [44]. Given a secret s ∈ F , the dealer chooses a random slope
                                2,2      p                         p
                               $
                             a ←− F and defines the degree-1 polynomial f(x) = s+ax. Let w ,w ∈ F be
                                   p                                                      0  1    p
                             fixed, distinct, public interpolation points or weights. The shares are s0 = f(w0)
                             and s =f(w ). Now, given the shares (s ,s ) = SSS   (s), and public weights
                                  1      1                         0  1       2,2
                                                              −1
                             w ,w , reconstruction function SSS  is defined by Lagrange interpolation:
                              0   1                           2,2
                                                  s = SSS−1(s ,s ) = w0s1 −w1s0.
                                                         2,2 0  1      w −w
                                                                        0    1
                             Each individual share is uniformly distributed over F and independent of the
                                                                              p
                             secret s, so SSS  is a perfect secret-sharing scheme [44]. Since its security is
                                            2,2
                                                                                                                                                         Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                                                      5
                                                                           purely information-theoretic, Shamir’s Secret Sharing enjoys a natural form of
                                                                           quantum resilience: its guarantees do not rely on computational assumptions that
                                                                           could be broken by quantum algorithms, and remain valid even in the presence
                                                                           of quantum adversaries [35].
                                                                           2.1           Ideal Functionality for Three-Party IT-Based Digital Signatures
                                                                          Weanalyze our construction in the standard synchronous MPC model [45], the
                                                                           minimal setting supporting IT-based authentication [30]. The system consists
                                                                           of three parties: the signer P , the holder P , and the verifier P . Parties com-
                                                                                                                                                 1                                   2                                                3
                                                                           municate over pairwise private and authenticated channels and have access to
                                                                           authenticated broadcast. Pairwise channels ensure confidentiality and integrity
                                                                           of point-to-point messages, while broadcast prevents equivocation. This matches
                                                                           the communication assumptions of the three-party SILMARILS protocol and
                                                                           the IC-based framework of [45, Protocol 18.7]. We consider a static, active ad-
                                                                           versary corrupting at most one party. Upon corruption, the adversary obtains
                                                                           full control of that party and may arbitrarily deviate from the protocol. The
                                                                           one-corruption threshold is the minimal requirement for IT-based authentication
                                                                           in the three-party setting [45].
                                                                           Definition 1. For a protocol Π and adversary A corrupting party P , the view
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                i
                                                                           ViewΠ consists of: 1) the input of P , 2) the private randomness of P , 3) all
                                                                                      i                                                                            i                                                                                  i
                                                                          messages received by Pi, 4) all oracle answers observed by Pi.
                                                                           Athree-party digital-signature scheme with transfer involves parties P (signer),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                           P (holder), and P (verifier), communicating over pairwise private authenticated
                                                                               2                                      3
                                                                           channels and an authenticated broadcast primitive [45]. Let x1 = M be the input
                                                                           to the scheme, which is defined by five polynomial-time algorithms:
                                                                              – KeyGen(1k): run by P , outputs (pk,sk).
                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                              – Sign (M): run by P , outputs a signature σ to P .
                                                                                              sk                                     1                                                                     2
                                                                              – Extract(M,σ): run by P in the signing phase, outputs z ∈ X ∪{⊥}, where
                                                                                                                                             2                                                                            2
                                                                                    z2 is the authenticated value associated with (M,σ).
                                                                              – Transfer(z2,σ): run by P2, outputs (M′,σ′) to P3.
                                                                              – ExtractTransfer(M′,σ′): run by P , outputs z ∈ X ∪{⊥}, representing the
                                                                                                                                                                    3                            3
                                                                                    verifier’s recovered authenticated value.
                                                                          Weformalize security using the three-party ideal functionality f                                                                                              =(f               , f         ),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DS               DS1          DS2
                                                                           originally introduced by Fitzi et al. [25–27,45] and illustrated in Fig. 1. The
                                                                           functionality captures the minimal guarantees required from an IT-DS scheme
                                                                           with transfer.
                                                                           Signing Phase (fDS1): The signer P1 provides an input x1 ∈ X ∪{⊥} to the
                                                                           functionality. The value x1 represents the authenticated value associated with the
                                                                                                           P                                       P                                            P
                                                                                                             1                                       2                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                z       if z  =x ,
                                                                                                          x                            x                        z                              z                    2        2     1
                                                                                                            1          f                 1                       2           f                  3         z =
                                                                                                                         DS1                                                  DS2                          3    ⊥ else.
                                                                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                            Fig.1: Ideal three-party digital-signature functionality.
                                   6        Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                                   message. The functionality forwards x to the holder P and stores it internally
                                                                              1                  2
                                   for use in the transfer phase. No other party receives information at this stage.
                                   Transfer Phase (f         ): To transfer a signature, P submits a value z ∈ X to
                                                          DS2                                2                     2
                                                                                              (
                                                                                                z ,   if z =x ,
                                   the functionality and P receives z = f          (x ,z ) =     2       2     1 The ideal
                                                             3           3     DS2   1  2       ⊥,    otherwise.
                                   functionality enforces the three core guarantees of IT-DS:
                                     – Correctness: honest executions always yield the authenticated value x1.
                                     – Unforgeability:neithertheholdernortheverifiercancausethefunctionality
                                        to output any value other than x1.
                                     – Transferability: any honest verifier must accept a value previously authen-
                                        ticated by an honest signer and forwarded by an honest holder.
                                   2.2    Real-World Security Definition and Supporting Notions
                                   Weformalize security using the standard real or ideal paradigm. Let fDS denote
                                   the three-party ideal functionality for digital signatures introduced by Fitzi et
                                   al. [45]. A real protocol Π is said to ε-securely implement fDS if every real-
                                   world attack can be simulated in the ideal world with at most ε statistical
                                   distinguishability. For any adversary A corrupting at most one party, there must
                                   exist a simulator S such that the adversary’s real-world view when interacting
                                   with Π is statistically close to its ideal-world view when interacting with S
                                                                                       real           ideal         
                                   and the ideal functionality fDS, i.e., dvar ViewA (Π), ViewA            (S ◦ fDS)    ≤ε.
                                   This definition captures the strongest form of information-theoretic security: the
                                   adversary must not be able to distinguish whether it is interacting with the real
                                   protocol or with the ideal functionality, except with probability ε.
                                   Characterization via Local Properties: Fitzi et al. [45] established a fun-
                                   damental equivalence that reduces simulation-based security to four concrete
                                   properties of a protocol.
                                   Theorem 1 ( [45], Lemma 18.15). A three-party protocol Π is a 2ε-secure
                                   implementation of f       with error ε against one active adversary if the following
                                                          DS
                                   conditions hold for any attack by the dishonest party:
                                     – ε     −correctness: with honest P and P , Pr(z = x ) ≥ 1−ε                 ,
                                         corr                               1        2       2     1          corr
                                     – ε −unforgeability: with honest P and P , Pr(z ̸= x ,z ̸= ⊥) ≤ ε ,
                                         uf                                   1       3       3     1   3           uf
                                     – ε      −transferability: with honest P and P , Pr(z ̸= z ,z ̸= ⊥) ≤ ε               ,
                                         trans                                   2       3       2     3   2           trans
                                     – ε    −secrecy: with honest P and P , ViewΠ(x ) of P in the signing phase
                                         sec                           1        2       3   1       3
                                       is almost independent of P ’s input x , which implies the existence of Q            Π
                                                                     1           1                                     View3
                                        such that d    (P    Π     , Q    Π) ≤ ε    , for every x ,
                                                    var   View3 (x1)  View3       sec             1
                                   where ε = max{ε        , ε , ε    , ε   }.
                                                      corr  uf   trans  sec
                                   Thus, to prove that a protocol securely realizes f       , it sufÏces to establish these
                                                                                          DS
                                   four properties. This modular approach greatly simplifies the security analysis in
                                   Section 7.
                                                                  Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length      7
                                3    Quantum Generalization of Theorem 1
                                Weanalyze our constructions under three models for the hash function H: the
                                Pure IT model, where H : X → Fp is a deterministic encoding; the IT+ROM,
                                                  ∗
                                where H : {0,1} → F is a classical random oracle; and the IT+QROM,
                                                          p
                                where H is accessible to quantum adversaries. In this section we lift Theorem 1
                                (cf. [45, Lemma 18.15]) to the quantum setting. This extension is necessary be-
                                cause many classical ROM techniques fail in the QROM—e.g., classical rewinding,
                                inspecting superposition queries, classical oracle programming, and the forking
                                lemma [10,46,47,50]. In contrast, the proof of Theorem 1 never interacts with
                                the adversary algorithmically; it reasons only about the joint distributions of
                                (X ,Z ,Z ,View ,View ,View ), where X is the signer’s input, Z ,Z are out-
                                   1  2   3      1      2      3           1                        2   3
                                puts, and each Viewi is the corresponding party’s view. The simulators are defined
                                at the level of distributions (or, in the quantum case, density operators), not
                                as black-box procedures that manipulate a quantum adversary. The proof uses
                                only standard IT tools—triangle inequality, conditioning/averaging, and coupling
                                (including maximal couplings)—all of which lift directly to the quantum setting
                                by replacing variational distance with trace distance and interpreting views as
                                quantum states. No rewinding, forking, or oracle programming is required [47,48].
                                3.1   Quantum Preliminaries
                                Webriefly recall the quantum-information concepts required for our analysis. All
                                Hilbert spaces are finite-dimensional. For a Hilbert space H, we write D(H) for
                                the set of density operators on H, i.e., positive semidefinite operators of trace 1.
                                Trace of an Operator and Partial Trace: Let T be a linear operator acting on
                                a finite-dimensional Hilbert space H. The trace of T is defined as Tr[T] :=
                                P⟨i|T|i⟩, where {|i⟩} is any orthonormal basis of H. This quantity is basis
                                   i
                                independent and equals the sum of the eigenvalues of T. Now, let HA and HB be
                                Hilbert spaces describing subsystems A and B, and let ρ     be a density operator
                                                                                         AB
                                on the composite system H ⊗H . The partial trace over B, denoted Tr , is
                                                            A      B                                       B
                                                            X
                                              Tr [ρ    ] :=     I ⊗⟨j| ρ        I ⊗|j⟩ ≡ρ ,                  (2)
                                                 B AB            A      B   AB A         B      A
                                                             j
                                where {|j⟩ } is any orthonormal basis of H . The resulting operator ρ          :=
                                           B                                   B                             A
                                Tr [ρ    ] is the reduced state of subsystem A. The partial trace over A is
                                   B AB
                                                            X
                                               Tr [ρ   ] :=     ⟨i|  ⊗I ρ       |i⟩ ⊗I ≡ρ .                  (3)
                                                 A AB              A    B   AB     A     B      B
                                                             i
                                Trace Distance: For density operators ρ,σ ∈ D(H), the trace distance is ∆(ρ,σ) :=
                                1                            √ †
                                  ∥ρ−σ∥ , where ∥A∥ = Tr A A denotes the trace norm. Trace distance is the
                                2        1             1
                                quantum analogue of variational distance and satisfies the triangle inequality.
                                Definition 2 (Bipartite States, [41]). A bipartite quantum state over registers
                                Aand B is a density operator ρ       =ρ ⊗ρ ∈D(H ⊗H ).
                                                                 AB     A     B        A      B
                                 8       Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                                Classical–Quantum States: A classical–quantum (cq) state over a classical register
                                                                                    P                x
                                 Xandaquantum register Q has the form ρ           =     p |x⟩⟨x|⊗ρ , where {p }
                                                                              XQ       x x           Q           x
                                 is a probability distribution and ρx are density operators. The trace distance
                                                                     Q
                                 between two cq-states decomposes as follows.
                                 Lemma 1 (Trace-Distance Decomposition, [48]). Let ρ              =P p |x⟩⟨x|⊗
                                                  P                                           XQ       x x
                                  x                                x
                                 ρ   and σ     =      p |x⟩⟨x| ⊗ σ , be classical–quantum states with the same
                                  Q        XQ       x x            Q                          P
                                classical marginal distribution {p }. Then ∆(ρ      , σ   ) ≤     p ∆(ρx,σx).
                                                                   x             XQ XQ           x x     Q Q
                                CPTP Maps: A linear map Φ : D(H) → D(H′) is completely positive and
                                trace-preserving (CPTP) if Φ ⊗ IK is positive for every auxiliary space K and
                                 Tr(Φ(ρ)) = 1 for all ρ [11]. CPTP maps model all physically admissible quantum
                                 operations, including unitary evolution, measurement, discarding registers, and
                                 interaction with an environment.
                                 Lemma 2 (Contractivity of CPTP Maps, [48]). For any CPTP map Φ and
                                any density operators ρ,σ, we have ∆ Φ(ρ),Φ(σ) ≤ ∆(ρ,σ).
                                Quantum Coupling: The following lemma is the quantum analogue of the clas-
                                 sical coupling argument used to relate the probability of “bad” events in two
                                 distributions.
                                 Lemma 3 (Quantum Coupling Lemma, [49]). Let ρ                and σ     be bipartite
                                                                                           AB       AB
                                 states. If an event E has probability 0 under σ   , then Pr [E] ≤ ∆(ρ      , σ   ).
                                                                                AB          ρ            AB AB
                                 These tools sufÏce to lift the classical characterization of digital-signature security
                                 to the quantum setting. Every step in the quantum generalization of Theorem 1
                                 consists only of applying CPTP maps (e.g., tracing out registers, simulating
                                 views), conditioning on classical events, and using the triangle inequality for
                                 trace distance. Since CPTP maps are contractive, all classical arguments that
                                 bound variational distance extend directly by replacing it with trace distance
                                 and interpreting views as quantum states. No rewinding, forking, or oracle
                                 programming is used, so none of the classical ROM techniques that fail in the
                                 QROMarise here.
                                 3.2   Quantum Security of fDS
                                 Weconsider a three-party digital signature functionality f    =(f      , f   ), P ,
                                                                                            DS      DS,1  DS,2    1
                                 P and P as before. A protocol Π implementing f          is an interactive protocol
                                  2       3                                           DS
                                 among P ,P ,P (and possibly an environment and a quantum adversary) with
                                          1   2  3
                                 classical inputs and outputs but potentially quantum internal computation
                                 and access to a quantum random oracle. In our setting, each party P has a
                                                                                                            i
                                 classical output Zi and a quantum view Viewi consisting of all quantum registers
                                 and classical transcripts observed during the protocol. The joint state of all
                                 registers in the real execution is denoted by ρ                   , with lowercase
                                                                               x1Z2Z3View1View2View3
                                 symbols (e.g., x ) representing fixed inputs and uppercase symbols (e.g., Z ,Z )
                                                 1                                                            2  3
                                 representing random variables produced during the execution. All CPTP maps
                                 are contractive with respect to trace distance, and the triangle inequality holds.
                                 We adopt a standard simulation-based definition in the quantum setting (see,
                                 e.g., [11]).
                                                                       Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length          9
                                   Definition 3 (ε-Security in Quantum). A protocol Π is ε-securely imple-
                                  menting fDS against one active quantum adversary if, for each corrupted party,
                                  there exists a quantum polynomial-time simulator such that the real and ideal
                                  executions are ε-close in trace distance (as joint states of the environment and
                                   honest parties).
                                   Wenowrestate the four properties in the quantum setting. All probabilities are
                                   taken over the randomness of the protocol, the adversary, and any oracles.
                                   Correctness: With honest P and P , Pr[Z ̸= x ] ≤ ε, for all x ∈ X.
                                                                    1       2       2     1                1
                                   Unforgeability: With honest P and P , Pr[Z ∈/ {x ,⊥}] ≤ ε, for all x ∈ X.
                                                                       1        3      3      1                    1
                                   Transferability: If P and P are honest, then Pr[Z ̸= Z ∧ Z ̸= ⊥] ≤ ε.
                                                            2       3                         2     3      2
                                   Secrecy: If P and P are honest, then the view of P in the signing phase is
                                                   1       2                                   3
                                       almost independent of x and there exists a state σ            such that for all x ,
                                                                1                             View3                     1
                                       ∆ ρ          , σ       ≤ε.
                                           View (x )   View3
                                               3  1
                                   Theorem 2 (Quantum Security of Digital Signatures). Let Π be a three-
                                   party protocol for fDS against quantum adversaries. If Π satisfies correctness,
                                  unforgeability, transferability, and secrecy with error at most ε, then it is an
                                   O(ε)-secure implementation of fDS; conversely, any ε-secure implementation of
                                   f   satisfies these four properties with error O(ε). The hidden constants arise
                                    DS
                                   from a constant number of triangle-inequality applications.
                                   Proof. (⇐) If the four properties hold, then Π is secure.
                                      Case 1: P and P honest. When P and P behave honestly, the only
                                                  1         2                    1        2
                                   potentially corrupted party is P . The simulator for P must therefore reproduce
                                                                     3                       3
                                   the joint distribution of (X ,Z ,View ) as seen in the real protocol. By secrecy,
                                                                 1   2      3
                                   the adversary controlling P learns essentially nothing about the signer’s input
                                                                 3
                                   x . Formally, there exists a fixed state σ           (independent of x ) such that
                                    1                                             View3                     1
                                                        
                                   ∆ ρView3(x1), σView3   ≤ ε. Thus, in the ideal world the simulator may simply
                                   output σ        as the view of P . Correctness ensures that the honest verifier
                                             View3                    3
                                   P outputs the signer’s input except with small probability: Pr[Z ̸= x ] ≤ ε.
                                    2                                                                        2     1
                                   Hence, the real joint state of (x ,Z ) is ε-close to the ideal joint state in which
                                                                      1   2
                                   Z2 is deterministically equal to x1. We now compare the full real state ρx Z View
                                                                                                                  1 2    3
                                   with the ideal state σ          , where the ideal state is defined by: Z = x , and
                                                          x1Z2View3                                           2     1
                                   View ∼ σ        . Applying Lemma 1 to decompose the trace distance over the
                                        3     View3
                                   classical registers (x ,Z ), and then using the triangle inequality, we obtain
                                                         1   2
                                        ∆(ρ           , σ         ) ≤ Pr[Z ̸= x ] + ∆ ρ             , σ      ≤ 2ε.
                                            x1Z2View3   x1Z2View3          2     1          View (x )  View3
                                                                      |    {z     }             3 1
                                                                           ≤ε          |         {z         }
                                                                                                 ≤ε
                                   Thus, the simulator for P can reproduce the ideal joint state up to trace distance
                                                              3
                                   at most 2ε, and therefore achieves simulation error O(ε) in this case.
                                      Case 2: P and P honest. Here P and P behave honestly, while P may be
                                                 1        3                 1       3                           2
                                   corrupted. In the ideal world, the functionality guarantees that the output of P
                                                                                                                         3
                                   is always either the correct message x or the distinguished symbol ⊥ indicating
                                                                            1
                                   rejection. Thus, the ideal joint distribution of (x1,Z3) is supported on the set
                                   10      Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                                   {(x ,x ),(x ,⊥)}. In the real protocol, an honest P should never accept an
                                      1   1     1                                             3
                                   incorrect message. Unforgeability therefore ensures that Pr[Z3 ∈/ {x1,⊥}] ≤ ε.
                                   Equivalently, the real distribution of (x ,Z ) is ε-close to the ideal distribution
                                                                              1   3
                                   in which Z3 is always either x1 or ⊥. Lemma 3 states that whenever two classical–
                                   quantum states differ only in a classical register with error probability at most ε,
                                   there exists a joint coupling whose trace distance is at most ε. Applying this lemma
                                   to the pair of states ρ    (real) and σ      (ideal), we obtain ∆(ρ      , σ     ) ≤ ε.
                                                         x Z               x Z                          x Z    x Z
                                                          1 3               1 3                          1 3     1 3
                                   The corrupted party P obtains its view by applying some CPTP map to the
                                                            2
                                   registers (x ,Z ). Formally, there exists a CPTP map Φ such that
                                               1   3
                                               ρ          =Φ(ρ       ),     and       σ          =Φ(σ        ).
                                                x Z View         x Z                   x Z View         x Z
                                                 1 3    2         1 3                   1 3    2         1 3
                                   By Lemma 2, CPTP maps cannot increase trace distance. Therefore,
                                                    ∆(ρ           , σ         ) ≤ ∆(ρ      , σ    ) ≤ ε.
                                                         x Z View    x Z View          x Z    x Z
                                                          1 3    2    1 3    2          1 3    1 3
                                   Thus, the simulator for the corrupted party P can reproduce the ideal joint
                                                                                       2
                                   state of (x ,Z ,View ) up to trace distance at most ε, achieving simulation error
                                              1   3      2
                                   O(ε) in this case.
                                      Case 3: P and P honest. Here P and P behave honestly, while P may
                                                  2       3                  2        3                             1
                                   be corrupted. In the ideal functionality, whenever the verifier outputs a valid
                                   message Z2 ̸= ⊥, the transfer recipient must output the same message. Thus, in
                                   the ideal world the joint distribution of (Z ,Z ) satisfies Z ̸= ⊥ =⇒ Z = Z .
                                                                                 2   3             2              3     2
                                   In the real protocol, transferability guarantees that an honest P cannot be
                                                                                                             3
                                   convinced to output a message different from the one accepted by the honest P .
                                                                                                                         2
                                   Formally, Pr[Z2 ̸= Z3 ∧ Z2 ̸= ⊥] ≤ ε. Equivalently, the real joint distribution of
                                  (Z2,Z3) is ε-close to the ideal distribution in which Z3 always equals Z2 whenever
                                   Z2 ̸= ⊥. Lemma 3 states that if two classical–quantum states differ only in a
                                   classical register with error probability at most ε, then there exists a coupling
                                   whose trace distance is at most ε. Applying this lemma to the real and ideal
                                   states of the pair (Z ,Z ) yields ∆(ρ         , σ    ) ≤ ε. The corrupted party P
                                                         2   3              Z Z    Z Z                                   1
                                                                             2 3     2 3
                                   obtains its view by applying some CPTP map to the registers (x ,Z ,Z ). Thus,
                                                                                                         1   2   3
                                   there exists a CPTP map Φ such that
                                          ρ             =Φ(ρ          )     and      σ             =Φ(σ          ).
                                            x Z Z View         x Z Z                  x Z Z View          x Z Z
                                             1 2 3    1         1 2 3                   1 2 3    1         1 2 3
                                   By Lemma 2, CPTP maps cannot increase trace distance. Therefore,
                                                  ∆(ρ             , σ           ) ≤ ∆(ρ       , σ    ) ≤ ε.
                                                      x Z Z View    x Z Z View           Z Z    Z Z
                                                       1 2 3     1   1 2 3     1          2 3     2 3
                                   Hence, the simulator for the corrupted signer P can reproduce the ideal joint
                                                                                        1
                                   state up to trace distance at most ε, achieving simulation error O(ε) in this case.
                                      (⇒) If Π is secure, then the four properties hold.
                                      Correctness: Assume that P and P behave honestly. In the ideal world, the
                                                                     1       2
                                   functionality fDS always delivers the signer’s input to the honest verifier; that is,
                                   the ideal output satisfies Z2 = x1 with probability 1. Security of Π means that
                                   for every environment, the real execution of the protocol is ε-indistinguishable
                                                                       Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length         11
                                   from the ideal execution. In particular, the joint real and ideal distributions
                                   of (x ,Z ) are within trace distance at most ε. Since the ideal distribution
                                        1   2
                                   assigns zero probability to the event {Z2 ̸= x1}, indistinguishability implies
                                   that the real execution can assign at most ε probability to this event. Formally,
                                                             real   ideal 
                                   Pr    [ Z ̸= x ] ≤ ∆ ρ         , ρ       ≤ ε. Thus, an honest verifier outputs the
                                     real   2     1          x Z    x Z
                                                              1 2    1 2
                                   correct message except with probability at most ε, establishing correctness.
                                      Unforgeability: Assume that P and P behave honestly. In the ideal world, the
                                                                       1       3
                                   functionality f    guarantees that an honest P can never be made to accept an
                                                   DS                                3
                                   incorrect message: its output is always either the true message x1 or the rejection
                                   symbol ⊥. Thus, the ideal distribution of Z3 is supported entirely on the set
                                   {x1,⊥}. Security of Π means that the real execution must be ε-indistinguishable
                                   from the ideal execution. In particular, the real and ideal distributions of the
                                   classical register Z3 must be within trace distance at most ε. Since the ideal
                                   distribution assigns zero probability to the event {Z ∈/ {x ,⊥}}, any deviation
                                                                                            3      1
                                   from this event in the real world must be bounded by the distinguishing advantage.
                                   Formally, by Lemma 3, whenever two classical–quantum states differ only on a
                                   classical register with error probability at most ε, there exists a coupling whose
                                   trace distance is at most ε. Applying this lemma to the real and ideal states of Z3
                                                                         real  ideal
                                   yields Pr    [ Z ∈/ {x ,⊥}] ≤ ∆ ρ         , ρ      ≤ ε. Thus, an honest P outputs
                                            real  3      1               Z3    Z3                               3
                                   an invalid message with probability at most ε, establishing unforgeability.
                                      Transferability: Assume that P and P behave honestly. In the ideal world,
                                                                         2       3
                                   the functionality fDS enforces perfect transferability and whenever the verifier
                                   accepts a message, i.e., whenever Z2 ̸= ⊥, the transfer recipient must output the
                                   same message. Formally, the ideal distribution satisfies Z2 ̸= ⊥ =⇒ Z3 = Z2.
                                   Security of Π means that the real execution must be ε-indistinguishable from the
                                   ideal execution. Since the ideal distribution assigns zero probability to the event
                                   {Z ̸=Z ∧ Z ̸=⊥},therealexecution can assign at most ε probability to this
                                      2     3      2
                                   event. Indeed, if the real protocol caused an honest P to output a value different
                                                                                            3
                                   from the one accepted by the honest P with probability greater than ε, then
                                                                               2
                                   an environment could distinguish the real and ideal executions with advantage
                                   exceeding ε, contradicting security. Thus, indistinguishability immediately yields
                                   Pr    [ Z ̸= Z   ∧ Z ̸=⊥] ≤ ε. This establishes transferability.
                                     real   2     3      2
                                      Secrecy. Assume that P and P behave honestly. In this setting, the only
                                                                 1        2
                                   potentially corrupted party is P . In the ideal world, the functionality f      reveals
                                                                     3                                          DS
                                   no information about the signer’s input x to P . Consequently, the ideal view of
                                                                               1      3
                                   P is a fixed state, independent of x . Let us denote this state by σ         . Security
                                    3                                    1                                 View3
                                   of Π means that for every environment, the real execution is ε-indistinguishable
                                   from the ideal execution. In particular, the real and ideal distributions of the
                                   adversary’s view must be within trace distance at most ε. Since the ideal view
                                   does not depend on x , this indistinguishability condition implies that the real
                                                           1
                                   view of P —which may in principle depend on x —cannot vary with x by more
                                             3                                         1                       1
                                   than ε in trace distance. Formally, letting ρ             denote the real view of P
                                                                                   View3(x1)                            3
                                   whenthesigner’s input is x , we obtain ∆ ρ              , σ      ≤ε.Thus,anhonest
                                                                1                 View (x )  View3
                                                                                      3  1
                                   P learns at most ε information about the signer’s input, establishing secrecy.
                                    3
                                   This completes the proof.                                                            □
                              12     Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                              3.3   Implications for QROM Analysis
                              Theorem 2 shows that Theorem 1 is robust to the quantum setting: once we
                              establish correctness, unforgeability, transferability, and secrecy against quantum
                              adversaries in the QROM (with respect to classical inputs/outputs and possibly
                              quantum internal computation), we may soundly conclude simulation-based
                              security of our implementation of fDS. The known issues that invalidate some
                              classical ROM reductions in the QROM (e.g., forking-lemma based proofs) do
                              not apply here, since the lemma and its proof are purely information-theoretic
                              and metric in nature.
                                 When we prove that a scheme is unforgeable against quantum adversaries in
                                                   ∗
                              the QROM, H : {0,1} → F is modeled as a uniformly random function, and
                                                         p
                              the adversary may query H in superposition |x,y⟩ 7→ |x,y ⊕H(x)⟩.
                              Definition 4 (Forgery event in quantum). A forgery occurs if a (quantum)
                              adversary A outputs a pair (M∗,σ∗ ) such that M∗ was never submitted to
                                                                alg
                              the signing oracle, and the verification algorithm accepts (M∗,σ∗ ) as a valid
                              signature. We denote this event by Forge.                     alg
                              Wecan prove that a quantum adversary making qH queries to a random oracle
                                       ∗
                              H:{0,1} →Fp can cause a collision in the oracle outputs with probability at
                              most O(q2 /p). The key technical tool is the recording (compressed-oracle) lemma,
                                       H
                              which says that the interaction of a quantum algorithm with a random oracle
                              can be represented as a distribution over classical query–answer transcripts [51].
                              Definition 5 (Collision Event). Let H : {0,1}∗ → Fp be a random function,
                              and let A be a (possibly quantum) oracle algorithm. We say that a collision occurs
                              if there exist distinct inputs x ̸= x′ such that H(x) = H(x′) and both x and x′
                              appear in the (compressed) oracle transcript associated with A’s execution. We
                              denote this event by Coll.
                              Lemma 4 (Recording/Compressed-Oracle Lemma [51]). Let the hash
                                                 ∗
                              function H : {0,1} → F be a uniformly random function, and let A be a
                                                        p
                              quantum oracle algorithm making at most q   queries to H. Then, there exists a
                                                                       H
                              classical random variable T (the transcript) such that T is a finite sequence of
                                                                   
                              pairs T = (x ,H(x )),...,(x ,H(x )) with t ≤ q , where the x are (classical)
                                           1     1        t     t             H            i
                              inputs and H(xi) are the corresponding oracle outputs. The distribution of T is
                              identical to the distribution of the query–answer transcript in a classical lazy-
                              sampling experiment where a classical algorithm makes at most q   (adaptive)
                                                                                             H
                              queries to a random oracle H : {0,1}∗ → Fp. In particular, any event that
                              depends only on the multiset {(x ,H(x ))} (such as the existence of a collision
                                                             i     i  i
                              among the values H(x )) has the same probability in the quantum execution as in
                                                   i
                              this classical transcript model.
                              Using Lemma 4, the quantum birthday bound reduces to a purely classical
                              probability calculation.
                                                                                              ∗
                              Theorem 3 (Quantum Birthday Bound [50]). Let H : {0,1} → Fp be a
                              uniformly random function, and let A be a quantum oracle algorithm making
                                                                         Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length            13
                                    Algorithm 1 KeyGen(1k)
                                     1: Choose a prime p ≈ 2k and work over F∗.
                                                                                  p
                                     2: Select hash function H and SSS2,2 with public weights w0,w1.
                                                    $   ∗
                                     3: Sample K ←− F and compute (K ,K ) = SSS             (K).
                                                        p                   0   1        2,2
                                     4: Output: private key sk = K, public key (w0,w1).
                                    Algorithm 2 Signsk(M)
                                    Require: Secret key sk = K and ephemeral session key k .
                                                                                                 sig
                                     1: n ← HMACk (M) and r ←H(M,n).
                                                      sig
                                                           $  ∗
                                     2: Sample α,β,b,d ←− Fp.
                                     3: Compute ε = αβ and (ε ,ε ) = SSS         (ε).
                                                                  0  1        2,2
                                     4: Compute K′ = HMAC (M) and (K′,K′) = SSS (K′).
                                                                K              0   1         2,2
                                     5: Compute the algebraic signature components:
                                                          σ =b(K′−r),σ =db−1,                      σ =K′d,
                                                           1                2                       3     1                 (4)
                                                                  −1                 ′     −1
                                                          σ =dε ε , σ =d(K −rε ε ).
                                                           4          1     5        0         0
                                     6: Output: σ       =(σ ,...,σ ).
                                                     alg     1       5
                                    at most qH queries to H. Let Coll be the event that there exist distinct inputs
                                    x≠  x′ in the (compressed) transcript such that H(x) = H(x′). Then Pr[Coll] ≤
                                    q (q −1)       q2
                                     H H        ≤ H. In particular, Pr[Coll] = O(q2 /p).
                                        2p          2p                                   H
                                    4    Construction of SILMARILS
                                    Wenowgive the full specification of our IT-secure signature scheme. The scheme
                                    operates over a prime field Fp and uses perfect 2-out-of-2 Shamir secret sharing
                                    SSS     for all shared values. All randomness comes from a TRNG, and H is either
                                        2,2
                                    a fixed injective encoding (pure IT model) or a random oracle (IT+ROM). Verifi-
                                    cation reconstructs a value that must equal 0 for valid signatures. Unforgeability
                                    Algorithm 3 Verify(M,σ )
                                                                    alg
                                    Require: Ephemeral session key ksig.
                                     1: Parse σ = (σ ,σ ,σ ,σ ,σ ).
                                                      1  2   3  4   5
                                     2: Compute n ← HMACk (M) and r ←H(M,n).
                                                                sig
                                     3: if σ4 = 0 then return 0
                                     4: else
                                     5:     Compute V =σ σ −σ , and V =σ σ −σ +rσ .
                                                        0    1 2     5        1     1 2     3      4
                                                                  −1
                                     6:     Reconstruct V = SSS      (V0,V1).
                                                                  2,2
                                     7:     if V = 0 then return 1
                                     8:     else return 0
                                     9:     end if
                                    10: end if
                               14     Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                               follows from the algebraic fact that any deviation from the honest equations
                               introduces a nonzero term that is uniformly distributed in F∗, since the verifica-
                                                                                          p
                               tion constraints form a linear system satisfied by exactly one tuple—the honest
                               signature—and any modification yields a uniformly random nonzero output.
                               4.1   Three-Party SILMARILS
                               In this section, we present SILMARILS construction in three-party mode. The
                               goal is to enable a signer P to authenticate a message M so that a holder P can
                                                         1                                              2
                               extract an authenticated value and subsequently transfer it to a verifier P , while
                                                                                                      3
                               ensuring correctness, unforgeability, and transferability with error at most ε = 1/p.
                               Our construction implements an IC mechanism based on afÏne authentication
                               over Fp [45, Protocol 18.7]. In our setting, the IC mechanism is applied not to
                               the message itself but to the authenticated value x := H(M,σ    ) ∈ F , where
                                                                                             alg     p
                               σ   = (σ ,...,σ ) is the algebraic part of SILMARILS signature produced
                                alg     1      5
                               by Algorithm 2. The IC layer ensures that P and P agree on a unique afÏne
                                                                            2      3
                               authentication pair (x,σ) satisfying σ = k x + k , for secret coefÏcients (k ,k )
                                                                        1     2                         1  2
                               held by P . Any attempt by a malicious P to cause P and P to disagree on
                                         3                               1           2       3
                               the authenticated value is detected with probability at least 1 − 1/p. Hence, the
                               resulting three-party SILMARILS protocol consists of two phases:
                               Signing phase: The signer P computes σ         using Algorithm 2, derives x =
                                                             1             alg
                               H(M,σ ), and initiates the IC protocol with P and P to authenticate x. The
                                      alg                                     2      3
                               IC protocol consists of a challenge phase (run by P ) and a consistency-check
                                                                                  2
                               phase (run by P and P ). At the end of this phase, the holder P obtains an
                                               1       3                                         2
                               authenticated pair (x,σ) consistent with the verifier’s secret line σ = k1x + k2
                               except with probability 1/p.
                               Transfer phase: The holder P sends (x,σ) to P , who checks whether the
                                                               2                  3
                               afÏne relation holds. If so, it outputs z  = x; otherwise, it outputs ⊥. To
                                                                        3
                               interpret x as a signature on M, the verifier recomputes σalg from M, checks
                                                                                               −1
                               that H(M,σ )=x, and verifies the algebraic predicate V = SSS      (V ,V ) = 0
                                           alg                                                 2,2  0  1
                               from Algorithm 3; both conditions hold for all honest signatures, so the protocol
                               realizes the ideal three-party functionality with error 1/p. Algorithms 1, 2, and 4
                               give key generation, signing, and three-party extraction. Each algebraic signature
                               σ   =(σ ,...,σ ) consists of masked encodings of K′, the randomness d, and
                                alg     1      5
                               Shamir shares of K′ and ε = αβ, ensuring that V = 0 for honest executions.
                               In the three-party setting, Algorithm 4 computes x = H(M,σ      ) and initiates
                                                                                             alg
                               the IC protocol with P and P , where the challenge and consistency checks
                                                      2       3
                               (Algorithms 5–6) authenticate x by producing an afÏne pair (x,σ) satisfying
                               σ = k x + k for verifier-held coefÏcients. The holder outputs z = x, which
                                     1     2                                                    2
                               is consistent with the verifier’s line except with probability 1/p. Any malicious
                               deviation violates an algebraic or afÏne relation, causing the reconstructed value
                               at the verifier to be uniformly random in Fp, so a forgery is accepted with
                               probability at most 1/p. Finally, the holder transfers (x,σ) to P (Algorithm 7),
                                                                                             3
                               and the verifier applies Algorithm 8 to output z ∈ {x,⊥} depending on whether
                                                                             3
                               the afÏne check holds.
                                                                       Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length         15
                                   Algorithm 4 Sign(3)(M) (run by P )
                                                        sk                  1
                                    1: Compute σalg using Algorithm 2.
                                    2: Compute x := H(M,σ ).
                                                              alg
                                                       ′  ′ $
                                    3: Sample k1,k2,x ,k ←− Fp.
                                                          2
                                    4: Compute σ = k x+k and σ′ = k x′ +k′.
                                                      1      2            1      2
                                                 ′    ′                     ′
                                    5: Send (x,x ,σ,σ ) to P and (k ,k ,k ) to P .
                                                             2        1  2  2       3
                                    6: Proceed to the IC challenge phase.
                                   Algorithm 5 IC Challenge Phase (run by P2)
                                                 $
                                    1: Sample e ←− Fp. ′                   ′
                                    2: Compute xe := x +ex and σe := σ +eσ.
                                    3: Broadcast (e,xe,σe).
                                      Upon receiving x, the verifier recomputes σalg from M and checks that
                                   H(M,σ )=xandV(P,M,σ )=0.Ifbothhold, the signature is accepted.
                                           alg                      alg
                                   4.2   Two-Party SILMARILS
                                                 ∗                   k
                                   Let H : {0,1} → Fp with p ≈ 2 , be a hash function modeled as a random oracle,
                                   and let HMAC be a pseudorandom function keyed by the long-term signing key
                                   K. The two-party signature scheme SILMARILS = (KeyGen,Sign,Verify) between
                                   P and P is defined as follows. We have also provided an open-source reference
                                    1        3
                                   implementation in Rust [20].
                                              k                           k                   ∗
                                   KeyGen(1 ): Choose a prime p ≈ 2 and work over F . Fix H and SSS                 (with
                                                                                              p                  2,2
                                                                                                                     $   ∗
                                       fresh internal randomness each use). Sample public weights w0,w1 ←− F
                                                                                                                         p
                                                                    $   ∗
                                       and a long-term key K ←− F . Signer and verifier share ksig for deriving
                                                                        p
                                       n=HMAC (M).Outputsk=K andpk=(w ,w ).
                                                    k                                       0   1
                                                     sig
                                                                                                     $   ∗
                                   Sign (M): On input M and sk = K, sample α,β,b,d ←− F and set ε =
                                        sk                                                               p
                                       αβ, (ε ,ε ) = SSS       (ε). Compute the shared nonce n := HMAC               (M),
                                              0   1         2,2                                                   k
                                                                                                                   sig
                                       and compute r := H(M,n). Derive the per-message signing key K′ :=
                                       HMAC (M),andcomputeits shares (K′,K′) = SSS                  (K′). Then compute
                                               K                                   0    1        2,2
                                       the algebraic signature σ     =(σ ,σ ,σ ,σ ,σ ) using (4).
                                                                  alg      1  2   3   4  5
                                   Verify (M,σ ): On input (M,σ ) and public key (w ,w ), parse σ                       =
                                         pk       alg                    alg                       0    1           alg
                                       (σ ,σ ,σ ,σ ,σ ). Compute n := HMAC              (M), r := H(M,n). If σ = 0,
                                         1   2  3   4   5                            ksig                           4
                                       output 0 (reject). Compute
                                                         V =σ σ −σ ,            V =σ σ −σ +rσ .                        (5)
                                                          0     1 2     5        1     1 2     3       4
                                       Reconstruct V = SSS−1(V ,V ). If V = 0 output 1, otherwise output 0.
                                                               2,2  0   1
                                   Remark 1 (Relationship Between Modes). The two-party TDV and three-party
                                   modes are distinct primitives with different assumptions and guarantees; we
                                   present them in a common algebraic framework but do not claim any reduction
                                   between them.
                               16     Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                               Algorithm 6 IC Consistency Checks (run by P and P )
                                                                              1      3
                                  Checks by P on P ’s broadcast:
                                               1     2
                                1: Verify x = x′ +ex and σ = σ′ +eσ.
                                         e               e
                                2: if either check fails then
                                3:   Broadcast “P corrupt” and broadcast (x,σ).
                                                 2
                                4:   P sets (x,σ) to the broadcasted pair.
                                       2
                                5:   P updates k so that σ = k x+k .
                                       3         2             1     2
                                6:   Terminate signing phase with z2 = x.
                                7: else
                                8:   Broadcast “accept”.
                                9: end if
                                  Checks by P :
                                               3
                                           ?         ′
                               10: Verify σ = k x +k +ek .
                                          e   1 e    2    2
                               11: Broadcast “accept” or “reject” accordingly.
                                  Checks by P on P ’s broadcast:
                                               1     3
                               12: Using (k ,k ,k′), verify whether P ’s broadcast (“accept” or “reject”) is consistent
                                          1  2  2                 3
                                  with the equation above.
                               13: if P3’s broadcast is inconsistent then
                               14:   Broadcast “P corrupt”.
                                                 3
                               15: end if
                               16: if P says “accept” and P says “accept” then
                                      3                  1
                               17:   Terminate signing phase with z2 = x.
                               18: else if P says “reject” and P says “accept” then
                                           3                 1
                               19:   P broadcasts (x,σ).
                                       1
                               20:   P sets (x,σ) to the broadcasted pair.
                                       2
                               21:   P updates k so that σ = k x+k .
                                       3         2             1     2
                               22:   Terminate signing phase with z2 = x.
                               23: else if P says “P corrupt” then
                                           1       3
                               24:   P broadcasts (k ,k ).
                                       1             1  2
                               25:   P sets (k ,k ) to the broadcasted pair.
                                       3      1  2
                               26:   P updates σ so that σ = k x+k .
                                       2                      1     2
                               27:   Terminate signing phase with z2 = x.
                               28: end if
                               5 Designated-Verifier Security of Two-Party SILMARILS
                               In this section we formalize the DV security of the two-party SILMARILS mode
                               and prove that it satisfies the Jakobsson–Sako–Impagliazzo (JSI) notion of DV
                               proofs [31]. Intuitively, a designated-verifier signature (DVS) scheme is one in
                               which the DV can always simulate accepting transcripts that are indistinguishable
                               from real ones, so that no third party can be convinced that the signer actually
                               produced a given transcript.
                                  Jakobsson et al. motivate designated verification as reconciling authenticity
                               with privacy: “we designate a verifier when we ensure that nobody but this
                               participant can be convinced by the proof.” Their core idea is that Alice proves
                               the disjunction ”either φ is true, or I am Bob,” which convinces Bob but is useless
                               to any third party, since Bob can always simulate being Bob. This captures the
                                                                          Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length            17
                                    Algorithm 7 Transfer(x,σ) (run by P )
                                                                                     2
                                     1: Send (x,σ) to P3.
                                    Algorithm 8 ExtractTransfer(x,σ) (run by P )
                                                                                                3
                                     1: if σ = k x+k then
                                                 1      2
                                     2:     Output z := x.
                                                      3
                                     3: else
                                     4:     Output z := ⊥.
                                                      3
                                     5: end if
                                    requirement that any transcript convincing to the designated verifier must be
                                    simulatable by that verifier alone, and therefore non-transferable.
                                        We adopt the JSI model with three parties: a prover P (the signer), a
                                    designated verifier V, and a third party C (Cindy). Let φ be the statement
                                    “σ is a valid SILMARILS signature on message M under the shared long-
                                    term key K and per-pair key k ”. A (possibly interactive) protocol (P ,P ) is a
                                                                       sig                                           P   V
                                    designated-verifier proof of φ if the following two properties hold: 1) Correctness
                                    for the DV: If P is honest and φ is true, then an honest V accepts with
                                    overwhelming probability; 2) Simulatability for the DV: For any (possibly
                                    malicious) prover P∗, there exists a probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) simulator
                                    SV that, given only V’s secret key and the public inputs, outputs transcripts that
                                    are computationally indistinguishable from those produced by an interaction
                                    between P∗ and an honest V.
                                        Following JSI, we say that V is a designated verifier if for any protocol
                                    (P ,P ,P ) in which V attempts to convince C of φ, there exists a protocol
                                       P    V   C
                                    (P′ ,P ) such that V alone can generate transcripts that C cannot distinguish from
                                       V   C
                                    those of the original three-party protocol. In particular, a hidden verifier C cannot
                                    obtain transferable conviction, since any transcript she sees could have been
                                    generated entirely by V. In the sequel, we first analyze the algebraic structure
                                    of the verification equations, showing that any party who can compute the per-
                                    message value r = H(M,HMACk (M)) can generate accepting transcripts and
                                                                           sig
                                    extract the hidden parameters a and s = K′. We then show that this capability
                                    is exactly the JSI designated-verifier simulation property and therefore a security
                                    feature, not a flaw.
                                    5.1    Algebraic Structure and Simulator Construction
                                    Using Shamir shares K′ = K′ + a w , K′ = K′ + a w , ε = ε + a w ,
                                                                 0             K 0       1             K 1     0            ε  0
                                                                                                                          −1
                                    ε =ε+a w , the verifier computes V = σ σ −σ = d(−a w −r+rε ε )
                                      1         ε  1                             0      1 2     5          K 0                 0
                                                                                            −1               −1            a w
                                    and V = σ σ −σ +rσ = d(−a w −r+rε ε ). Using ε ε = 1+ ε i,
                                           1      1 2      3      4          K 1                 1               i           ε
                                    we obtain V = dw C, V = dw C, and C := −a + raε. Thus (V ,V ) are
                                                   0        0     1        1                    K       ε             0   1
                                    evaluations of f(x) = dCx, and reconstruction yields f(0) = 0, guaranteeing
                                    acceptance.
                                    18       Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                                    Simulator (DV Forgery): Any party knowing r can generate a valid transcript.
                                    Compute n = HMAC (M)andr=H(M,n),choosearbitraryK′∗,a ,a ∈F
                                                             k                                                       K ε       p
                                                              sig
                                                    ∗                ′∗     ′∗              ′∗      ′∗            ∗
                                    and d,ε,b ∈ F , and form K         =K +a w ,K =K +a w ,ε =ε+a w ,
                                                    p                0             K 0      1             K 1 0             ε  0
                                      ∗
                                    ε =ε+a w .Substitute these values into the signature equations (4) and output
                                      1         ε  1
                                    the resulting σ∗ = (σ∗,...,σ∗).
                                                             1        5
                                    5.2    Extraction of the Hidden Parameters
                                                                                                 −1
                                    From the signature equations σ = b(s−r), σ = db                 , σ =d(aw +s), σ =
                                                                         1                2             3         1          4
                                                                                         −1
                                    du , σ = d(aw + s − ru ), with u = ε ε , the verifier forms the ratio
                                       1    5           0            0           i           i
                                    R = σ1σ2 = s−r , yielding s(R − 1) + aw R + r = 0. From reconstruction,
                                            σ3      aw1+s                               1
                                    aC =rC , C =λ w +λ w , with C =λ (u −1)+λ (u −1) and
                                        w       ε    w      0 0      1 1          ε      0  0           1   1
                                                                                                 aw +s−σ aw1+s
                                                                              aw +s                  0         5
                                                                                 1                                 σ
                                             d = σ /(aw +s),        u =σ               ,   u =                      3   .
                                                   3      1           1     4    σ          0               r
                                                                                  3
                                    Thus C =α a+α s+α , giving the linear system
                                             ε     a       s      0
                                                  (Cw −rαa)a−rαss=rα0,                 w1Ra+(R−1)s=−r.
                                    Solving yields explicit closed forms for a and s. If R ̸= 1, then s = −aw1R−r.
                                    Once s is known, K′ = aw +s and K′ = aw +s.                                          R−1
                                                           0       0             1       1
                                    Theorem 4 (DV Security of Two-Party SILMARILS). The two-party
                                    SILMARILS is a DV signature scheme in the sense of JSI notion. In particular,
                                    for every message M and every honestly generated transcript (M,σ,r), the
                                    designated verifier—and only the designated verifier—can (i) verify correctness
                                    and (ii) generate transcripts that are computationally indistinguishable from
                                    honestly generated ones. Consequently, no third party can obtain transferable
                                    conviction that the signer produced the transcript.
                                    Proof. Let P be the signer, P the DV, and C an arbitrary third party. The signer
                                                   1                  3
                                    and DV share the per-pair key k , enabling P to compute n = HMAC                        (M)
                                                                           sig             3                             k
                                                                                                                          sig
                                    and r = H(M,n) for any M. Knowledge of r is the trapdoor enabling simulation,
                                    analogous to the trapdoor commitment key in JSI.
                                    Correctness: For an honestly generated signature σ = (σ ,...,σ ), the verifier
                                                                                                       1        5
                                                                                                a
                                    computes V = dw C, V = dw C, C = −a +r ε, which interpolate to the
                                                  0       0      1        1             K       ε
                                    afÏne polynomial f(x) = dCx with f(0) = 0. Thus the verification algorithm
                                    always accepts honest signatures.
                                    Simulatability: Given any message M, the DV can generate an accepting transcript
                                    without interacting with the signer. It computes r = H(M,HMACk (M)),
                                                                                                                        sig
                                                           ′∗                               ∗                ′∗      ′∗
                                    chooses arbitrary K ,a ,a ∈ F and d,ε,b ∈ F , and forms K                   =K +a w ,
                                                               K ε        p                 p                0             K 0
                                       ′∗      ′∗            ∗                ∗
                                    K =K +a w ,ε =ε+a w ,ε =ε+a w .Substitutingintothesignature
                                       1             K 1 0             ε  0   1         ε  1
                                    equations (4) yields σ∗ = (σ∗,...,σ∗). Verification of σ∗ produces the same
                                                                       1        5
                                    (V ,V ) structure as an honest signature and reconstructs f(0) = 0, so σ∗ is
                                       0   1
                                    always accepted.
                                    Indistinguishability: In honest signing, the parameters (K′,a ,a ,d,ε,b) are
                                                                                                              K ε
                                    uniformly random in the same domains as in simulation. The only difference is
                                                                       Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length         19
                                   that K′ is derived as HMACK(M), whereas K′∗ is chosen uniformly. Since K
                                   is unknown to any external observer, the distributions of honest and simulated
                                   transcripts are identical. Hence no algorithm can distinguish them.
                                  Non-transferability: Let C receive (M,σ,r) from P . Because P can generate
                                                                                           3              3
                                   such transcripts without interacting with P , C cannot determine whether the
                                                                                   1
                                   transcript originated from the signer or from the DV. This matches the JSI
                                   definition: for any three-party protocol (P ,P ,P ), there exists a two-party
                                               ′                                  P    V   C
                                   protocol (P ,P ) producing indistinguishable transcripts.
                                               V   C
                                      Hence, only the DV can be convinced by a transcript, and any transcript that
                                   convinces them is simulatable by them alone. Therefore, two-party SILMARILS
                                   satisfies the JSI designated-verifier definition.                                    □
                                   6 EUF-CMASecurity of Two-Party SILMARILS Against
                                        Non-Designated Parties
                                   In this section we prove that two-party SILMARILS is EUF-CMA secure in
                                   the ROM and QROM against non-designated parties. In the two-party mode
                                   of SILMARILS, the designated verifier holds the shared secret ksig and can
                                   therefore compute the per-message nonce n = HMACk (M) and the receipt
                                                                                                 sig
                                   r = H(M,n) for any message M. This enables the designated verifier to simulate
                                   accepting transcripts that are indistinguishable from honestly generated ones, as
                                   required by JSI notion. Consequently, standard EUF-CMA unforgeability cannot
                                   hold for the designated verifier. Instead, we prove unforgeability against all non-
                                  designated parties, who do not know ksig and therefore cannot compute r for new
                                   messages. We emphasize that in the TDV setting the designated verifier may
                                   publish a receipt r enabling third-party verification, but verification is impossible
                                   without r, and even with r no external party can determine whether a valid
                                   transcript was produced by the signer or simulated by the designated verifier.
                                   Definition 6 (EUF-CMA Security for Non-Designated Verifiers). We
                                  write EUF-CMA¬DV to denote existential unforgeability under chosen-message
                                  attack for all parties except the designated verifier. An adversary A is given the
                                   public parameters (w ,w ) and oracle access to Sign (·). It outputs (M⋆,σ⋆).
                                                          0   1                               sk
                                  We say that A wins if Verify (M⋆,σ⋆) = 1 and M⋆ was never queried to the
                                                                   pk
                                  signing oracle. The designated verifier is excluded from this game, as it must be
                                  able to simulate signatures.
                                   Weisolate the algebraic core used to analyze unforgeability for non-designated
                                   verifiers. Here the only value depending on ksig is the receipt r = H(M,n),
                                   sampled uniformly per query; the adversary never learns n or k .
                                                                                                         sig
                                                                                                         A k
                                   Definition 7 (Algebraic Core Experiment). In CoreForge (1 ), the chal-
                                                       $   ∗
                                  lenger samples K ←− F , gives (w ,w ) to A, and for each signing query M sam-
                                                           p           0   1
                                                  $   ∗                                                        $
                                   ples α,β,b,d ←− F , sets ε = αβ with (ε ,ε ) = SSS         (ε), samples r ←− F , com-
                                                      p                       0  1         2,2                    p
                                   putes K′ = HMAC (M) with (K′,K′) = SSS                (K′), and returns (σ ,...,σ )
                                                        K               0    1        2,2                       1       5
                                   20      Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                                                             ⋆   ⋆       ⋆                             ⋆ $
                                  as in (4). On output (M ,σ ,...,σ ), the challenger samples r ←− F , computes
                                                                 1       5                                    p
                                     ⋆        ⋆                                  ⋆       −1    ⋆    ⋆
                                   V and V as in (5), and reconstructs V = SSS              (V ,V ), and outputs 1 iff
                                    0        1                                           2,2   0   1
                                     ⋆                             ⋆                                        A k
                                   M was never queried and V = 0. The advantage is Pr[CoreForge (1 ) = 1].
                                   Lemma 5 (Algebraic Core Unforgeability). If r⋆ is sampled uniformly
                                  independent of the adversary’s view after the PPT adversary outputs its forgery,
                                                      A k            1
                                  then Pr[CoreForge (1 ) = 1] ≤ p, which is negligible in k.
                                   Proof. Fix any view of A up to the moment it outputs (M⋆,σ⋆,...,σ⋆). The value
                                                                                                    1       5
                                   r⋆ used in verification is sampled after the forgery is output and is uniform in Fp,
                                   independent of A’s view. The verification equations define V ⋆ independently of
                                                                                      −1             0
                                   r⋆ and V⋆ as an afÏne function of r⋆. Since SSS        is linear, the predicate V ⋆ = 0
                                            1                                         2,2
                                   holds for at most one value of r⋆. Thus the probability that V ⋆ = 0 is at most
                                   1/p, even for an unbounded adversary.                                                □
                                   Remark 2. Ifthereceiptwerepublic,i.e.r = H(M)withoutthehiddennoncen =
                                   HMAC (M),then the verification equations V = σ σ −σ and V = σ σ −
                                          k                                             0    1 2      5       1     1 2
                                            sig
                                   σ +rσ become public linear constraints on (σ ,...,σ ), making the algebraic
                                    3      4                                           1        5
                                   core deterministically forgeable: for any new M′ ̸= M, an adversary may choose
                                   arbitrary σ′,σ′,σ′,σ′ ∈ F , compute V′ = σ′σ′ −σ′ +r′σ′ with r′ = H(M′),
                                               1   2  3   4     p              1     1 2     3       4
                                             ′    ′  ′              ′                        ′        −1   ′   ′
                                   and set σ = σ σ −(w /w )V , which always yields V = SSS              (V ,V ) = 0 and
                                             5    1 2      0    1  1                                  2,2  0   1
                                   thus a perfect forgery. To prevent this, SILMARILS derives a secret per-message
                                   nonce n = HMACksig(M) and defines r = H(M,n), ensuring r is unpredictable
                                   for new messages and eliminating the algebraic forgery.
                                   Definition 8. Let Π        =(KeyGen,Sign,Verify) denote the two-party algebraic
                                                          core
                                  core of SILMARILS. We say that Π               is ε   -correct if, for all messages M
                                                                            core    corr
                                  and all honestly generated key pairs (pk,sk) ← KeyGen,
                                                                                            
                                               Pr Verify (M,σ ) = 1  σ         ←Sign (M) ≥ 1−ε              .
                                                         pk      alg         alg        sk                corr
                                  If ε     =0, the algebraic core is said to be perfectly correct.
                                      corr
                                   Theorem 5 (1/p−Correctness). For any message M and every honestly gen-
                                  erated key pair (pk,sk), an honestly generated signature σ            ←Sign (M) is
                                                                                                     alg         sk
                                  rejected with probability at most 1/p.
                                   Proof. Let M be arbitrary and let σ          = (σ ,σ ,σ ,σ ,σ ) be the signature
                                                                             alg      1  2   3   4  5
                                   produced by Sign (M). Let n = HMACk (M),r = H(M,n), and let K′ =
                                                      sk                          sig
                                                     ′    ′              ′                                               $
                                   HMAC (M),(K ,K )=SSS (K ).Thesigningalgorithmsamplesα,β,b,d←−
                                          K          0    1        2,2
                                    ∗
                                   F , sets ε = αβ and (ε ,ε ) = SSS         (ε), and computes (σ ,...,σ ) as in (4).
                                    p                        0  1         2,2                        1       5
                                                                                                          −1
                                   The verifier computes V ,V as in (5) and reconstructs V = SSS             (V ,V ). We
                                                h            0   1           i             h              2,2  0   1     i
                                   have V = d (K′ −r)−(K′ −rε−1ε ) and V = d (K′−r)−(K′ −rε−1ε ) .
                                          0                     0          0         1                      1          1
                                                                                                             w K′−w K′
                                   Since (K′,K′) are the Shamir shares of K′ at points (w ,w ), K′ =           0  1   1 0 .
                                            0    1                                             0   1            w −w
                                                                                          w ε −w ε                0   1
                                   Similarly, since (ε ,ε ) are the shares of ε, ε =       0 1   1 0. Reconstructing V
                                                       0  1                                 w −w
                                                                                             0   1
                                              w V −w V
                                   gives V =    0 1   1 0. Substituting the expressions for V and V and simplifying
                                                 w0−w1                                         0        1
                                                                       Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length         21
                                   using the identities above yields V = 0. Considering the case σ4 = 0, which
                                   causes the verification to reject, the verification predicate evaluates to zero with
                                   probability 1 − 1/p for honestly generated signatures.                               □
                                                     ¬DV
                                   6.1   EUF-CMA           Security of Two-Party SILMARILS in the ROM
                                   Wenowprove that the two-party mode of SILMARILS is EUF-CMA¬DV secure
                                   in the ROM, using Lemma 5. Recall that non-designated verifiers do not know
                                   the shared secret ksig and therefore cannot compute the per-message nonce
                                   n=HMACk (M)orthereceipt r =H(M,n) for new messages. This prevents
                                                sig
                                   them from mounting the deterministic algebraic forgery described in the previous
                                   remark.
                                   Theorem 6. Assume H is modeled as a random oracle and is collision resistant,
                                  and HMAC is a PRF keyed by ksig. Then the two-party SILMARILS scheme is
                                              ¬DV
                                   EUF-CMA         secure. More precisely, for any PPT adversary A there exist PPT
                                  algorithms B ,B ,B such that
                                                1   2   3
                                         AdvEUF-CMA¬DV(A) ≤ Advcore(B )+AdvPRF             (B )+AdvCR(B )+ 1.
                                             SILMARILS                     1         HMAC 2            H    3     p
                                                                                           ¬DV
                                   Proof. Let A be a PPT adversary in the EUF-CMA               game. We proceed via a
                                   sequence of games.
                                                                             ¬DV
                                   Game 0: This is the real EUF-CMA               experiment for SILMARILS. The
                                   adversary receives (w0,w1), has access to the signing oracle, and interacts with
                                   Hasarandomoracle. Let Succ0 denote the event that A outputs a valid forgery
                                  (M⋆,σ⋆ ) on a message M⋆ not previously signed.
                                          alg
                                                                                                             ∗
                                   Game 1: Replace HMACk by a truly random function F : {0,1} → Fp. All
                                                                 sig
                                   other aspects remain unchanged. Let Succ be the forgery event in Game 1.
                                                                                   1
                                   By a standard PRF reduction, there exists a PPT distinguisher B such that
                                                                                                            2
                                                                    PRF
                                   Pr[Succ ] − Pr[Succ ]      ≤ Adv          (B ). From now on we analyze Game 1,
                                            0            1            HMAC 2
                                   where n := F(M) and r := H(M,n).
                                   Game 2: We now make explicit how the simulator programs the random oracle
                                   H. A simulator B maintains a table TH. On a signing query M, it: 1) samples
                                      $                                  $
                                   n ←− F as F(M); 2) samples r ←− F ; 3) programs H(M,n) := r in T ; 4)
                                          p                                  p                                       H
                                                        $   ∗
                                   samples α,β,b,d ←− F , sets ε = αβ and (ε ,ε ) = SSS                (ε); 5) computes
                                                            p                         0   1         2,2
                                   K′ =HMAC (M)and(K′,K′)=SSS (K′);6)computes(σ ,...,σ ) exactly
                                                 K              0   1         2,2                       1       5
                                   as in Sign; 7) returns σalg to A. For any other H-query (x,y) not equal to (M,n)
                                   for a signed message, B returns a fresh uniform value in F , consistent with T .
                                                                                                   p                    H
                                   This perfectly simulates Game 1, so Pr[Succ1] = Pr[Succ2].
                                   Analysis of a forgery in Game 2: Suppose A outputs a forgery (M⋆,σ⋆ ) with
                                                                                                                 alg
                                   σ⋆ = (σ⋆,...,σ⋆). Let n⋆ := F(M⋆) and r⋆ := H(M⋆,n⋆). Since verification
                                    alg      1       5
                                   accepts, the algebraic predicate V ⋆ = σ⋆σ⋆−σ⋆,, V ⋆ = σ⋆σ⋆−σ⋆+r⋆σ⋆, satisfies
                                       −1                             0      1 2     5   1      1 2     3      4
                                   SSS (V⋆,V⋆)=0. We distinguish two cases.
                                       2,2  0   1
                                                                        ⋆   ⋆          ⋆
                                  Case 1: A never queried H on (M ,n ). Then r is uniform and independent of
                                   A’s view. For any fixed (σ⋆,...,σ⋆), the algebraic predicate holds for at most
                                                                1       5
                                   one value of r⋆, so Pr[Succ ∧Case 1] ≤ 1.
                                                                2               p
                               22      Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                                                             ⋆   ⋆
                               Case 2: A queried H on (M ,n ). Let this be the first such query. At that
                               moment, the simulator chooses r⋆ uniformly. Conditioned on this choice, the
                               distribution of (σ⋆,...,σ⋆) is identical to that in the algebraic core experiment.
                                                 1      5
                               Define B as the algebraic-core adversary that runs A and outputs the forgery in
                                        1
                               Case 2. Then Pr[Succ ∧Case 2] ≤ Advcore(B ).
                                                     2                       1
                                   If A ever forces H(x) = H(x′) for x ≠    x′, then we obtain a collision in
                               H. Define B3 to output such a pair. Then Pr[A causes a collision in H]        ≤
                               AdvCR(B ). Combining the two cases, Pr[Succ ] ≤ Advcore(B )+ 1 +AdvCR(B ).
                                   H    3                                   2              1    p      H    3
                               Together with the transition from Game 0 to Game 1,
                                     AdvEUF-CMA¬DV(A) ≤ AdvPRF      (B )+Advcore(B )+AdvCR(B )+ 1.
                                         SILMARILS             HMAC 2                1       H    3    p
                               By Lemma 5 and the assumed security of HMAC and H, the right-hand side is
                                                                            ¬DV
                               negligible. Hence SILMARILS is EUF-CMA           secure.                      □
                                                ¬DV
                               6.2   EUF-CMA         Security of Two-Party SILMARILS in the QROM
                               Wenowextend the EUF-CMA¬DV analysis of SILMARILS to the QROM. The
                               classical ROM proof relies on lazy sampling and post-hoc programming of the
                               random oracle at points (M,n), where n is the output of a PRF. In the QROM,
                               the adversary may query the random oracle in superposition, and therefore the
                               classical programming argument is no longer sound. To obtain a valid security
                               proof, we rely on the measure-and-reprogram technique of Zhandry [50] and
                               Unruh [47], which allows programming the random oracle at a single point while
                               bounding the adversary’s distinguishing advantage.
                               Lemma 6 (Quantum Measure-and-Reprogram [50], [47]). Let A be a
                               quantum algorithm that makes at most qH queries to a random oracle H : X → Y,
                                                                                             H
                               where Y is a finite set. On input public parameters PP, A        outputs a pair
                                 ⋆                            ⋆        ⋆
                               (x ,z) ∈ X × Z. Let V(PP,x ,z,H(x )) ∈ {0,1} be a (classical) predicate.
                               Consider the following two experiments:
                                                                                                       ⋆
                               Real experiment (E1): Sample a random oracle H : X → Y, run (x ,z) ←
                                   AH(PP), and output (x⋆,z,H(x⋆)).
                               Measure-and-reprogram experiment (E2): Sample a random oracle H and
                                   run AH(PP), but let a simulator S do the following: at one adaptively chosen
                                   oracle query (among at most q ), measure the query register to obtain x˜;
                                                                   H
                                   choose any y⋆ ∈ Y; define H′(x˜) = y⋆ and H′(x) = H(x) for x ≠   x˜; and let
                                   Acontinue with H′. If (x⋆,z) is the final output, return (x⋆,z,H′(x⋆)).
                               Then a simulator S exists making at most qH +O(1) oracle queries and         
                                                                                                  q2
                                           ⋆       ⋆                        ⋆     ′  ⋆                 H
                               Pr V(PP,x ,z,H(x )) = 1 E1 −Pr V(PP,x ,z,H (x )) = 1 E2  ≤ O |Y| .
                               In particular, from the adversary’s point of view, programming the random oracle
                               at a single point x˜ (chosen by measuring one of its queries) and assigning it an
                               arbitrary value y⋆ is indistinguishable from the original random-oracle experiment
                               up to statistical distance O(q2 /|Y|).
                                                            H
                                                                       Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length         23
                                                              ¬DV
                                   Theorem 7 (EUF-CMA              Security in the QROM). Assume H is modeled
                                  as a quantum-accessible random oracle and is collision-resistant against quantum
                                  adversaries and HMAC is a quantum-secure PRF keyed by ksig. Then, SILMAR-
                                   ILS is EUF-CMA¬DV secure in the QROM. More precisely, for any quantum
                                   polynomial time (QPT) adversary A making at most qH quantum queries to H,
                                  there exist QPT algorithms B ,B ,B such that
                                                                   1   2   3
                                         EUF-CMA¬DV               core           PRF               CR           q2 
                                     Adv             (A) ≤ Adv       (B )+Adv          (B )+Adv (B )+O             H .
                                         SILMARILS                     1         HMAC 2            H    3          p
                                                                                                                      ¬DV
                                   Proof. Let A be a QPT adversary against SILMARILS in the EUF-CMA
                                   game, making at most qH quantum queries to the random oracle H. We show
                                   how to bound AdvEUF-CMA¬DV(A) via a sequence of games and reductions.
                                                       SILMARILS
                                                                          ¬DV
                                   Game0(Real QROMEUF-CMA                      game): In Game 0, we run the standard
                                              ¬DV
                                   EUF-CMA         experiment for SILMARILS in the QROM: 1) A key pair (pk,sk)
                                   is generated honestly. 2) The adversary A has quantum oracle access to H and
                                   classical access to a signing oracle Sign (·). 3) Eventually, A outputs a pair
                                                                               sk
                                  (M⋆,σ⋆ ). 4) The experiment outputs 1 (success) if Verify (M⋆,σ⋆ ) = 1 and
                                          alg                                                       pk       alg
                                   M⋆wasneverqueried to the signing oracle. Let Adv0 := Pr[Game 0 outputs 1] =
                                   AdvEUF-CMA¬DV(A).
                                       SILMARILS
                                   Game1(Replace HMAC by a quantum-secure PRF): In the real scheme,
                                   the value n used to derive r is computed as n = HMACk (M). By assumption,
                                                                                                 sig
                                   HMAC is a quantum-secure PRF. We define Game 1 as follows: 1) Replace
                                                                                      ∗
                                   HMACk byatrulyrandomfunctionF :{0,1} →Fp.2)Foreachsigning query
                                            sig
                                   M,set n := F(M) and then derive r := H(M,n) as in the real scheme. By the
                                   quantum PRF security of HMAC, there exists a QPT distinguisher B such that
                                                                                                              2
                                   |Adv −Adv | ≤ AdvPRF          (B ), where Adv is the success probability of A in
                                        1       0          HMAC 2                  1
                                   Game1. Hence it sufÏces to bound Adv1 and consider the idealized setting where
                                   F is a truly random function, independent of H.
                                   Game 2 (Measure-and-reprogram H at signing points). In Game 1,
                                   for each signing query M, the scheme computes n := F(M) and then sets
                                   r := H(M,n). In the QROM, A may have queried H on superpositions that
                                   include (M,n), so we cannot naively program H(M,n) after the fact. We now
                                   define Game 2, where a simulator S uses the measure-and-reprogram lemma
                                  (Lemma 6) to program H at points of the form (M,n) for signing queries M:
                                   1) For each signing query M, the simulator samples n := F(M) and a fresh
                                      $
                                   r ←− Fp. 2) The simulator applies the measure-and-reprogram procedure to the
                                   quantum random oracle H at the point (M,n), reprogramming H(M,n) to r. 3)
                                   It then computes the algebraic signature components (σ1,...,σ5) exactly as in
                                   the real signing algorithm, using this r, and returns σ      =(σ ,...,σ ) to A. By
                                                                                             alg      1       5
                                   Lemma 6, for each programmed point (M,n), the statistical distance between
                                   the real QROM experiment and the measure-and-reprogram experiment is at
                                   most O(q2 /|Y|), where Y is the output space of H. In our setting, H outputs
                                             H
                                   elements of Fp, so |Y| = p. Since the number of signing queries is polynomial
                                   and qH bounds the total number of quantum queries, a union bound yields
                               24      Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                                                   q2 
                               |Adv2−Adv1| ≤ O H , where Adv2 is the success probability of A in Game 2.
                                                     p
                               In Game 2, the distribution of signatures seen by A is identical to the real scheme:
                               for each signing query M, the value r = H(M,n) is uniform in Fp (from A’s
                               point of view) and the signature is computed honestly from r.
                               Game 3 (Explicit simulation of signatures): We now make explicit the fact
                                                                        $
                               that in Game 2, the simulator chooses r ←− Fp and then programs H(M,n) to r.
                               Thus, we can equivalently define Game 3 as: 1) For each signing query M, sample
                                                  $
                               n:=F(M)andr←−Fp. 2) Program H(M,n):=r via measure-and-reprogram.
                               3) Compute (σ ,...,σ ) exactly as in the real signing algorithm using this r.
                                               1      5
                               By construction, Adv3 = Adv2. We emphasize that in Game 3, for each signed
                               message M, the pair (n,r) is uniform and independent of A’s view, conditioned
                               only on the fact that H(M,n) has been programmed to r.
                                   Let (M⋆,σ⋆ )betheforgeryoutputbyAinGame3,whereσ⋆ =(σ⋆,...,σ⋆)
                                             alg                                              alg    1       5
                                               ⋆  ⋆              ⋆         ⋆       ⋆         ⋆   ⋆
                               and Verifypk(M ,σ    ) = 1. Let n := F(M ) and r := H(M ,n ). We distin-
                                                  alg
                                                                                                   ⋆  ⋆
                               guish two cases, depending on whether A has queried H on (M ,n ). Case
                               1: A never queried H on (M⋆,n⋆). In this case, from A’s point of view, r⋆
                               is uniform in Fp and independent of its entire view (including all signatures
                               and oracle answers), because: 1) F is a truly random function, so n⋆ = F(M⋆)
                               is uniform and independent of all other values; 2) H is a random oracle, and
                                  ⋆   ⋆                               ⋆  ⋆
                               (M ,n ) was never queried, so H(M ,n ) is uniform and independent. The
                               algebraic verification predicate of SILMARILS is a system of equations over
                               F that, for fixed (σ⋆,...,σ⋆), is satisfied by at most one value of r⋆. Therefore,
                                 p                 1       5
                               Pr[verification accepts in Case 1] ≤ 1. Case 2: A queried H on (M⋆,n⋆). Let
                                                                     p
                               (M⋆,n⋆) be the first such query. At the moment this query is made, the simulator
                                                   ⋆                                                     ⋆   ⋆
                               in Game 3 chooses r as a fresh uniform element of F and programs H(M ,n )
                                                                                    p
                               to r⋆ via measure-and-reprogram. By Lemma 6, the joint state of A and the
                               oracle after this programming step is statistically close to the state in the ideal
                               random-oracle experiment, with distinguishing advantage at most O(q2 /p). Con-
                                                                                                    H
                               ditioned on this, the distribution of (σ⋆,...,σ⋆,r⋆) in A’s view is identical to
                                                                       1      5
                               that in the algebraic core experiment, where r⋆ is uniform and independent of
                               the adversary’s internal randomness. Hence, any non-negligible probability that
                               Aoutputs a new tuple (M⋆,σ⋆,...,σ⋆) such that the algebraic predicate holds
                                                             1       5
                               for r⋆ yields a non-negligible advantage for a QPT adversary B in the algebraic
                                                                                             1
                               core game. By Lemma 5, this probability is bounded by Advcore(B )+1/p.
                                                                                                 1
                                   In both cases, we have implicitly assumed that A does not exploit collisions
                               in H. If A can force H(x) = H(x′) for distinct x ̸= x′ with non-negligible proba-
                               bility, then we obtain a quantum collision-finder B against H, with advantage
                                                                                  3
                               AdvCR(B ). Now, let Adv be the success probability of A in Game 3. From the
                                   H    3               3                                                  
                                                                           core          CR       1      q2
                               case analysis above, we obtain Adv   ≤ Adv     (B )+Adv (B )+ +O H .
                                                                  3             1        H   3    p       p
                               Combining the game transitions, we have
                                AdvEUF-CMA¬DV(A) = Adv ≤ Adv +AdvPRF          (B ) ≤ Adv +AdvPRF      (B )+
                                    SILMARILS            0       1      HMAC 2           3       HMAC 2
                                           q2          core          PRF             CR         q2 
                                          O H ≤Adv (B )+Adv                 (B )+Adv (B )+O          H .
                                              p               1        HMAC 2          H    3        p
                                                                  Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length     25
                                ByLemma5andtheassumedquantumsecurityof HMACandH,theright-hand
                                side is negligible in the security parameter.                                   □
                                7    Security Analysis of Three-Party SILMARILS
                                We now state the main security theorem for our three-party SILMARILS
                                protocol. The theorem asserts that the protocol implements the ideal three-party
                                digital signature functionality fDS with error ε = 1/p.
                                Theorem 8 (Security of Three-Party SILMARILS). Let p be a prime
                                and let all parties operate over F . Let H be any function (deterministic, classical
                                                                 p
                                random oracle, or quantum-accessible random oracle) with range Fp, and define
                                x := H(M,σalg). Consider the three-party SILMARILS protocol consisting of
                                Algorithms 2–8. Then, for any (classical or quantum) adversary corrupting at most
                                one party, the protocol realizes the ideal digital-signature functionality fDS with
                                distinguishing advantage ε = 1. In particular, the protocol satisfies the previously
                                                              p
                                defined notions of correctness, unforgeability, transferability, and secrecy, each
                                with error at most 1/p, uniformly across the ROM, QROM, and Pure-IT models.
                                Proof. Fix a prime p and let all parties operate over F . Let H be any function
                                                                                        p
                                with range Fp (deterministic, classical random oracle, or quantum-accessible
                                randomoracle).ForagivenmessageM andhonestlygeneratedalgebraicsignature
                                σ    = (σ ,...,σ ) produced by Algorithm 2, the signer P computes x :=
                                  alg     1       5                                            1
                                H(M,σ )∈F and then runs Algorithms 4–6 to authenticate x using an IC
                                        alg     p
                                protocol of the same form as Protocol 18.7 in [45].
                                Reduction to the IC functionality: Condition on a fixed value of x ∈ F and
                                                                                                            p
                                on fixed secret coefÏcients (k ,k ) ∈ F2 held by P . From the point of view of
                                                              1   2     p           3
                                the IC layer, the three-party SILMARILS protocol is exactly an execution of
                                Protocol 18.7 in [45] on the message x, where P plays the role of the sender,
                                                                                   1
                                holding x and the afÏne authentication pair (x,σ) with σ = k x+k ; P plays
                                                                                                1     2   2
                                the role of the receiver, who should obtain z = x; P plays the role of the verifier,
                                                                            2       3
                                who holds (k ,k ) and outputs z ∈ {x,⊥}. Algorithms 4–6 implement exactly
                                             1   2                3
                                the challenge, consistency checks, and resolution rules of Protocol 18.7 in [45],
                                specialized to the afÏne line σ = k x + k over F . Crucially, the IC security
                                                                     1      2       p
                                properties (correctness, unforgeability, transferability, secrecy) depend only on the
                                algebraic structure of the protocol over F and on the randomness of the IC coins
                                                                         p
                                         ′  ′
                                (k ,k ,x ,k ,e), and not on how x was obtained. In particular, the adversary
                                  1  2      2
                                never interacts with H through the IC interface: x is simply a field element fixed
                                by P before the IC protocol starts. Therefore, the analysis of [45, Protocol 18.7]
                                     1
                                applies verbatim in all three models (ROM, QROM, Pure-IT).
                                Correctness: If P and P are honest, then by the correctness guarantee of
                                                    1        2
                                Protocol 18.7, the IC protocol ensures that P and P both output x except with
                                                                             2       3
                                probability at most 1/p. In our instantiation, the resolution rules in Algorithm 6
                                guarantee that whenever the IC protocol accepts, we have z = x and z = x.
                                                                                               2            3
                                Thus the previously defined correctness notion holds with error at most 1/p.
                                26      Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                                Unforgeability: If P and P are honest, then a malicious P attempts to
                                                       1        3                                 2
                                cause P to output some z ∈/ {x ,⊥}, where x is the value authenticated by
                                        3                   3     1              1
                                P . In the IC abstraction, this corresponds to the receiver trying to change
                                  1
                                the authenticated message while still passing the verifier’s afÏne check. By the
                                soundness (unforgeability) guarantee of Protocol 18.7 and Lemma 18.15 in [45],
                                the probability that a cheating receiver can make the verifier accept a value
                                different from the sender’s input is at most 1/p. Hence the previously defined
                                unforgeability condition holds with error at most 1/p.
                                Transferability: If P and P are honest, then a malicious P may try to
                                                       2        3                                  1
                                make them disagree on the authenticated value. In the IC abstraction, this is
                                exactly the cheating-sender case: the sender attempts to cause the receiver and
                                verifier to output different values. Protocol 18.7 guarantees that this happens
                                with probability at most 1/p. Therefore, the previously defined transferability
                                notion holds with error at most 1/p.
                                Secrecy: If P and P are honest, then the view of P during the IC protocol
                                              1        2                                3
                                consists only of the afÏne authentication data and the challenge transcript, which,
                                by the privacy guarantee of Protocol 18.7, is statistically independent of the
                                authenticated value x1. Thus the previously defined secrecy notion holds with
                                error 0 (and hence at most 1/p).
                                   In all of the above arguments, the value x is treated as an arbitrary element
                                of F fixed before the IC protocol begins. The correctness, unforgeability, trans-
                                    p
                                ferability, and secrecy proofs for Protocol 18.7 and Lemma 18.15 in [45] rely
                                only on the fact that H outputs elements of Fp; they do not depend on any
                                further structural property of H. As a result, the same bounds apply whether
                                H is instantiated as a deterministic function, a classical random oracle, or a
                                quantum-accessible random oracle. The distinguishing advantage between the real
                                three-party SILMARILS protocol and the ideal digital-signature functionality
                                f   is therefore at most 1/p in all three models. This completes the proof.    □
                                 DS
                                8    Performance Evaluation
                                We now evaluate the efÏciency of two-party SILMARILS, covering key and
                                signature sizes, computational costs of signing and verification, and overall commu-
                                nication overhead, and we compare these metrics to leading PQ signature schemes
                                to contextualize practical performance. As SILMARILS in two-party TDV mode
                                is not a public-verifier signature scheme, these comparisons to Dilithium, Fal-
                                con, and SPHINCS+ reflect size and efÏciency only, not equivalent security or
                                functionality.
                                   Let p ≈ 2k denote the prime defining the field Fp. All public, secret, and
                                signature components are single field elements, and thus occupy log2(p) ≈ k bits.
                                This yields exceptionally compact keys. The secret key consists of a single field
                                element, giving |sk| = k bits. The public key contains two field elements giving
                                |pk| = 2k bits. A signature consists of five field elements giving |σ| = 5k bits.
                                Over a 256-bit prime field, we have |sk| = 256 bits = 32B, |pk| = 512 bits = 64B
                                and |σ| = 1280 bits = 160B. Thus, even at the 256-bit security level, the public
                                                                                                                                                                    Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length                                                                          27
                                                                                          Table 2: Comparison of SILMARILS with other digital signature schemes.
                                                                                 Scheme                                              Security Type             PKSize (B)SK Size (B) Sig Size (B) Who Can Verify and Cost                                  Key Assumptions
                                                                                 SILMARILS                                           Information-Theoretic             64            32             160     TDV,≈5−6field mults + 1 SSS recon              TRNG+SSS
                                                                                 sr25519                                             Classical, Like Schnorr           32            64              64     Public Verifier, 1 scalar mult + 1 hash        ECDLPover Curve2551
                                                                                                                                                  NIST Post-Quantum Candidates
                                                                                 Dilithium-2 (L2)                                    Computational PQ               1312           2528           2420      Public Verifier, 1 matrix-vector mult + 1 hash Module-LWE
                                                                                                                                                                                        *
                                                                                 Dilithium-3 (L3)                                    Computational PQ               1952           4000           3293      Public Verifier, matrix–vector mult            Module-LWE
                                                                                 Falcon-512 (L1)                                     Computational PQ                897           1281             690     Public Verifier, FFT + lattice decoding        SIS over NTRU lattices
                                                                                 SPHINCS+ (Gen.)                                     Computational PQ                  64           128          49856      Public Verifier, Many hashing + tree traversal Hash-based (QROM)
                                                                                 SPHINCS+-128s (L1)                                  Computational PQ                  32           64*           7856      Public Verifier, hash tree traversal           Hash-based
                                                                                 SPHINCS+-128f (L1)                                  Computational PQ                  32           64*          17088      Public Verifier, hash tree traversal           Hash-based
                                                                                 SPHINCS+-192s (L3)                                  Computational PQ                  48            96          16224      Public Verifier, hash tree traversal           Hash-based
                                                                                 SPHINCS+-192f (L3)                                  Computational PQ                  48            96          35664      Public Verifier, hash tree traversal           Hash-based
                                                                                                                    **
                                                                                 SLH-DSA-(SHA2/SHAKE)-128-24           (L1, 224 sigs) Computational PQ                 32            48           3856      Public Verifier, hash-based tree traversal     Hash-based (limited-signature)
                                                                                                                    **
                                                                                 SLH-DSA-(SHA2/SHAKE)-192-24           (L3, 224 sigs) Computational PQ                 48            72           7752      Public Verifier, hash-based tree traversal     Hash-based (limited-signature)
                                                                                                                    **
                                                                                 SLH-DSA-(SHA2/SHAKE)-256-24           (L5, 224 sigs) Computational PQ                 64            96          14944      Public Verifier, hash-based tree traversal     Hash-based (limited-signature)
                                                                                 *SK Size for Dilithium-3 assumed to scale with security level (not explicitly in original tables). SK Size for SPHINCS+ variants assumed to be 64B (seed size
                                                                                 for 128-bit security level, not explicitly in original tables). See https://asecuritysite.com/pqc/pqc_sig for more details.
                                                                                                                                                24
                                                                                 **NIST SP 800-230 [17]: reduced-size SLH-DSA variants for 2 -signature use cases.
                                                                                and secret keys remain extremely compact, and the signature size remains close
                                                                                to that of ECDSA signature. In addition, all arithmetic is carried out in F with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           p
                                                                                               256
                                                                                p ≈ 2                 , so a field multiplication costs roughly the same as a constant-time
                                                                                256-bit modular multiply (e.g., via Montgomery reduction). Signing requires
                                                                                about 10–12 such multiplications, while verification needs only 5–6, making
                                                                                both operations far lighter than those in lattice or hash-based PQ schemes.
                                                                                Table 2 compares our concrete instantiation to standardized PQ signatures at
                                                                                the 128- and 192-bit security levels. Since SILMARILS is a TDV scheme with a
                                                                                different threat model, this comparison is not meant to suggest equivalence, but
                                                                                to illustrate efÏciency in blockchain settings where PQC is more than sufÏcient
                                                                                but still expensive. A fair comparison with other DV schemes is omitted due
                                                                                to space and the complexity of aligning models. Additional benchmarks appear
                                                                                in [20].
                                                                                9           Conclusion
                                                                                SILMARILSis a unified framework for lightweight TDV authentication built
                                                                                from a minimal algebraic core over F and perfect 2-out-of-2 Shamir sharing,
                                                                                                                                                                                  p
                                                                                rather than a conventional digital signature. Its two-party mode yields a TDV
                                                                                signature scheme: we prove designated-verifier simulatability in the sense of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¬DV
                                                                                Jakobsson–Sako–Impagliazzo and establish EUF-CMA                                                                                                        security for all non-
                                                                                designated verifiers in both the ROM and QROM. In the three-party setting,
                                                                                adopting the broadcast model of Fitzi et al., we obtain a statistically secure
                                                                                information-checking protocol with full simulation-based security and error 1/p.
                                                                                Practical instantiations rely on hash functions, motivating a unified analysis
                                                                                across the Pure IT, IT+ROM, and QROM models and a quantum extension
                                                                                of the Fitzi simulation framework. We show that correctness, secrecy, transfer-
                                                                                ability, and non-designated unforgeability remain equivalent to simulation-based
                                                                                security even against quantum adversaries. Thanks to its structural simplicity,
                                                                                SILMARILSachieves much smaller keys and signatures than standardized PQC
                                                                                schemes. This is not a comparison of primitives—TDV authentication and PQC
                                                                                signatures address different threat models—but in blockchain settings where PQC
                                                                                is already more than sufÏcient yet expensive, lightweight TDV mechanisms such
                                                                                as SILMARILS offer a compelling alternative for reducing on-chain overhead.
                28 Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                References
                1. Digital signature standard (DSS). Federal Information Processing Standard FIPS
                  186-1, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD, USA
                 (Dec 1998), https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/186-1/final, supersedes FIPS
                  186 (1996); Withdrawn January 27, 2000
                2. Aardal, M.A., Adj, G., Aranha, D.F., Basso, A., Canales Martínez, I.A., Chávez-
                  Saab, J., Corte-Real Santos, M., Dartois, P., De Feo, L., Duparc, M., Eriksen,
                  J.K., Fouotsa, T.B., Gazzoni Filho, D.L., Hess, B., Kohel, D., Leroux, A., Longa,
                  P., Maino, L., Meyer, M., Nakagawa, K., Onuki, H., Panny, L., Patranabis, S.,
                  Petit, C., Pope, G., Reijnders, K., Robert, D., Rodríguez Henríquez, F., SchaefÒer,
                  S., Wesolowski, B.: SQIsign: Algorithm specifications and supporting documen-
                  tation (round 2). Tech. rep., NIST Post-Quantum Cryptography Project (Feb
                  2025), https://csrc.nist.gov/csrc/media/Projects/pqc-dig-sig/documents/
                  round-2/spec-files/sqisign-spec-round2-web.pdf, accessed 2026-01-12
                3. Amiri, R., Abidin, A., Wallden, P., Andersson, E.: EfÏcient unconditionally secure
                  signatures using universal hashing. In: Applied Cryptography and Network Security.
                  Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10892, pp. 143–162. Springer (2018)
                4. Aspnes, J.: Randomized protocols for asynchronous consensus. Distributed Com-
                  puting 16, 165–175 (2003)
                5. Ben-Or, M.: Another advantage of free choice: Completely asynchronous protocols.
                  In: Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing.
                  pp. 27–30. ACM (1983)
                6. Bernstein, D.J., Hülsing, A., Kölbl, S., Niederhagen, R., Rijneveld, J., Schwabe, P.:
                  The SPHINCS+ signature framework. In: Proceedings of the 2019 ACM SIGSAC
                  Conference on Computer and Communications Security. p. 2129–2146. Association
                  for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA (2019). https://doi.org/10.1145/
                  3319535.3363229, https://doi.org/10.1145/3319535.3363229
                7. Beullens, W.: Breaking Rainbow takes a weekend on a laptop. In: Dodis, Y., Shrimp-
                  ton, T. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2022. pp. 464–479. Springer Na-
                  ture Switzerland, Cham (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4_
                  16
                8. Beullens, W., Chen, M.S., Ding, J., Gong, B., Kannwischer, M.J., Patarin,
                  J., Peng, B.Y., Schmidt, D., Shih, C.J., Tao, C., Yang, B.Y.: UOV: Unbal-
                  anced oil and vinegar — algorithm specifications and supporting documenta-
                  tion (round 2). Tech. rep., NIST Post-Quantum Cryptography Project (Feb
                  2025), https://csrc.nist.gov/csrc/media/Projects/pqc-dig-sig/documents/
                  round-2/spec-files/uov-spec-round2-web.pdf, accessed 2026-01-12
                9. Boneh, D.: Schnorr digital signature scheme. In: van Tilborg, H.C.A. (ed.) En-
                  cyclopedia of Cryptography and Security. Springer, Boston, MA (2005). https:
                  //doi.org/10.1007/0-387-23483-7_369
                10. Boneh, D., Zhandry, M.: Secure signatures and chosen ciphertext security in
                  a quantum computing world. In: CRYPTO 2013. Lecture Notes in Computer
                  Science, vol. 8043, pp. 361–379. Springer (2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/
                  978-3-642-40084-1_21
                11. Cao, N., Fitzsimmons, M., Mann, Z., Pereira, R., Laflamme, R.: Quantum maps
                  between CPTP and HPTP (2023), https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01894
                12. Chaum, D., Roijakkers, S.: Unconditionally-secure digital signatures. In: Advances
                  in Cryptology – CRYPTO ’90. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 537, pp.
                  206–214. Springer (1990)
                                                                  Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length     29
                                13. Considine, J., Fitzi, M., Franklin, M., Levin, L.A., Maurer, U., Metcalf, D.: Byzan-
                                    tine agreement given partial broadcast. Journal of Cryptology 18, 191–217 (2005)
                                14. Courtois, N., Finiasz, M., Sendrier, N.: How to achieve a McEliece-based digital
                                    signature scheme. In: Boyd, C. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2001.
                                    Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 2248, pp. 157–174. Springer (2001)
                                15. Cramer, R., Damgård, I., Dziembowski, S., Hirt, M., Rabin, T.: EfÏcient multiparty
                                    computations secure against an adaptive adversary. In: Advances in Cryptology
                                    – EUROCRYPT’99. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 1592, pp. 311–326.
                                    Springer (1999)
                                16. Cramer, R., Damgård, I., Nielsen, J.: Secure Multiparty Computation and Secret
                                    Sharing. Cambridge University Press (2015)
                                17. Dang, Q., Moody, D.: Additional SLH-DSA parameter sets for limited-signature
                                    use cases. NIST Special Publication 800-230 (Initial Public Draft), National Insti-
                                    tute of Standards and Technology (Apr 2026). https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.
                                    SP.800-230.ipd,https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-230.ipd,initialPublic
                                    Draft
                                18. Dolev, D., Strong, R.: Authenticated algorithms for Byzantine agreement. SIAM
                                    Journal on Computing 12(4), 656–666 (1983)
                                19. Ducas, L., Kiltz, E., Lepoint, T., Lyubashevsky, V., Schwabe, P., Seiler, G., Stehlé,
                                    D.: CRYSTALS-Dilithium: A lattice-based digital signature scheme. IACR Transac-
                                    tions on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems 2018(1), 238–268 (Feb
                                    2018). https://doi.org/10.13154/tches.v2018.i1.238-268
                                20. Eternax Labs: SILMARILS implementation repository. https://github.com/
                                    eternax-ai/silmarils-paper (2026), accessed: 2026-04-24
                                21. Feldman, P., Micali, S.: An optimal probabilistic protocol for synchronous Byzantine
                                    agreement. SIAM Journal on Computing 26(4), 873–933 (1997)
                                22. Fischer, M.J., Lynch, N.A., Merritt, M.: Easy impossibility proofs for distributed
                                    consensus problems. Distributed Computing 1(1), 26–39 (1986)
                                23. Fischer, M.J., Lynch, N.A., Paterson, M.S.: Impossibility of distributed consensus
                                    with one faulty process. Journal of the ACM 32(2), 374–382 (1985)
                                24. Fitzi, M., Garay, J.A., Maurer, U., Ostrovsky, R.: Minimal complete primitive for
                                    secure multi-party computation. Journal of Cryptology 18, 37–61 (2005)
                                25. Fitzi, M., Gisin, N., Maurer, U., Rotz, O.V.: Unconditional byzantine agreement
                                    and multi-party computation secure against dishonest minorities from scratch. In:
                                    Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2002. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
                                    vol. 2332, pp. 482–501. Springer (2002)
                                26. Fitzi, M., Wolf, S., Wullschleger, J.: Pseudo-signatures, broadcast, and multiparty
                                    computation from correlated randomness. In: Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO
                                    2004. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 3152, pp. 562–578. Springer (2004)
                                27. Fitzi, M., Hirt, M., Maurer, U.: Trading correctness for privacy in uncondi-
                                    tional multi-party computation. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology —
                                    CRYPTO1998. pp. 121–136. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg (1998)
                                28. Fouque, P.A., Hoffstein, J., Kirchner, P., Lyubashevsky, V., Pornin, T., Prest, T.,
                                    Ricosset, T., Seiler, G., Whyte, W., Zhang, Z.: Falcon: Fast-fourier lattice-based
                                    compact signatures over NTRU. https://research.ibm.com/publications/
                                    falcon-fast-fourier-lattice-based-compact-signatures-over-ntru           (Jan-
                                    uary 2020), iBM Research
                                29. Hanaoka, G., Shikata, J., Zheng, Y., Imai, H.: Unconditionally secure digital signa-
                                    ture schemes admitting transferability. In: Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT
                                    2000. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 1976, pp. 130–142. Springer (2000)
                30 Hassan Khodaiemehr, Khadijeh Bagheri, Chen Feng, and Dariia Porechna
                30. Iwamura, K., Kamal, A.A.A.M.: Secure user authentication with information
                  theoretic security using secret sharing-based secure computation. IEEE Access 13,
                  9015–9031 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3526632
                31. Jakobsson, M., Sako, K., Impagliazzo, R.: Designated verifier proofs and their
                  applications. In: Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT ’96. Lecture Notes in
                  Computer Science, vol. 1070, pp. 143–154. Springer (1996)
                32. Johnson, D., Menezes, A., Vanstone, S.: The elliptic curve digital signature algorithm
                 (ECDSA). Int. J. Inf. Secur. 1(1), 36–63 (Aug 2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/
                  s102070100002, https://doi.org/10.1007/s102070100002
                33. Jonsson, J., Kaliski, B.: Public-key cryptography standards (pkcs) #1: Rsa cryp-
                  tography specifications version 2.1. RFC 3447, Internet Engineering Task Force
                 (IETF) (Feb 2003), https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3447
                34. Katz, J., Koo, C.Y.: On expected constant-round protocols for byzantine agreement.
                  Journal of Computer and System Sciences 75(2), 91–112 (2009)
                35. Krotou, A.: Shamir’s secret sharing (sss) for quantum-safe data storage (October
                  2025), https://vault12.com/learn/advanced-crypto-security/cryptography/
                  quantum-safe-data/, vault12
                36. Lamport, L., Shostak, R., Pease, M.: The byzantine generals problem. ACM Trans-
                  actions on Programming Languages and Systems 4(3), 382–401 (1982)
                37. Lamport, L.: Constructing digital signatures from a one way function. Tech. Rep.
                  CSL-98, SRI International, Computer Science Laboratory, Menlo Park, California
                 (Oct 1979), https://lamport.azurewebsites.net/pubs/dig-sig.pdf
                38. Lynch, N.A.: Distributed Algorithms. Morgan Kaufmann (1996)
                39. McEliece, R.J.: A public-key cryptosystem based on algebraic coding theory.
                  Deep Space Network Progress Report 44, 114–116 (Jan 1978), https://ui.
                  adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1978DSNPR..44..114M, provided by the SAO/NASA As-
                  trophysics Data System
                40. Merkle, R.: A certified digital signature. In: CRYPTO. pp. 218–238. Springer (1989)
                41. Nielsen, M.A., Chuang, I.L.: Quantum Computation and Quantum Information.
                  Cambridge University Press, 10th anniversary edition edn. (2010)
                42. Pease, M., Shostak, R., Lamport, L.: Reaching agreement in the presence of faults.
                  Journal of the ACM 27(2), 228–234 (1980)
                43. Rabin, M.O.: Randomized Byzantine generals. In: 24th Annual Symposium on
                  Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS). pp. 403–409. IEEE Computer Society
                 (1983)
                44. Shamir, A.: How to share a secret. Commun. ACM 22(11), 612–613 (Nov 1979).
                  https://doi.org/10.1145/359168.359176
                45. Tyagi, H., Watanabe, S.: Information-theoretic Cryptography. Cambridge University
                  Press (2023)
                46. Unruh, D.: Universally composable quantum multi-party computation. In: EURO-
                  CRYPT2010. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 6110, pp. 486–505. Springer
                 (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-13190-5_25
                47. Unruh, D.: Non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs in the quantum random oracle
                  model. In: Advances in Cryptology — EUROCRYPT 2015. LNCS, vol. 9057, pp.
                  755–784. Springer (2015)
                48. Watrous, J.: The Theory of Quantum Information. Cambridge University Press
                 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1017/9781316848142
                49. Winter, A.: Tight uniform continuity bounds for quantum entropies. Communi-
                  cations in Mathematical Physics 347(1), 291–313 (2016). https://doi.org/10.
                  1007/s00220-016-2609-8
                                                                  Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length     31
                                50. Zhandry, M.: How to construct quantum random functions. In: 2012 IEEE 53rd
                                    Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science. pp. 679–687 (2012).
                                    https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2012.37
                                51. Zhandry, M.: How to record quantum queries, and applications to quantum in-
                                    differentiability. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio, D. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology
                                    – CRYPTO 2019. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 11693, pp. 239–268.
                                    Springer (2019)
